Pine: Enabling Privacy-Preserving Deep Packet Inspection on TLS with Rule-Hiding and Fast Connection Establishment.
Transport Layer Security Inspection (TLSI) enables enterprises to decrypt, inspect and then re-encrypt users’ traffic before it is routed to the destination. This breaks the end-to-end security guarantee of the TLS specification and implementation. It also raises privacy concerns since users’ traffic is now known by the enterprises, and third-party middlebox providers providing the inspection services may additionally learn the inspection or attack rules, policies of the enterprises. Two recent works, BlindBox (SIGCOMM 2015) and PrivDPI (CCS 2019) propose privacy-preserving approaches that inspect encrypted traffic directly to address the privacy concern of users’ traffic. However, BlindBox incurs high preprocessing overhead during TLS connection establishment, and while PrivDPI reduces the overhead substantially, it is still notable compared to that of TLSI. Furthermore, the underlying assumption in both approaches is that the middlebox knows the rule sets. Nevertheless, with the services increasingly migrating to third-party cloud-based setting, rule privacy should be preserved. Also, both approaches are static in nature in the sense that addition of any rules requires significant amount of preprocessing and re-instantiation of the protocols.In this paper we propose Pine, a new Privacy-preserving inspection of encrypted traffic protocol that (1) simplifies the preprocessing step of PrivDPI thus further reduces the computation time and communication overhead of establishing the TLS connection between a user and a server; (2) supports rule hiding; and (3) enables dynamic rule addition without the need to re-execute the protocol from scratch. We demonstrate the superior performance of Pine when compared to PrivDPI through extensive experimentations. In particular, for a connection from a client to a server with 5,000 tokens and 6,000 rules, Pine is approximately 27% faster and saves approximately 92.3% communication cost.

Bulwark: Holistic and Verified Security Monitoring of Web Protocols.
Modern web applications often rely on third-party services to provide their functionality to users. The secure integration of these services is a non-trivial task, as shown by the large number of attacks against Single Sign On and Cashier-as-a-Service protocols. In this paper we present Bulwark, a new automatic tool which generates formally verified security monitors from applied pi-calculus specifications of web protocols. The security monitors generated by Bulwark offer holistic protection, since they can be readily deployed both at the client side and at the server side, thus ensuring full visibility of the attack surface against web protocols. We evaluate the effectiveness of Bulwark by testing it against a pool of vulnerable web applications that use the OAuth 2.0 protocol or integrate the PayPal payment system.

A Practical Model for Collaborative Databases: Securely Mixing, Searching and Computing.
We introduce the notion of a Functionally Encrypted Datastore which collects data anonymously from multiple data-owners, stores it encrypted on an untrusted server, and allows untrusted clients to make select-and-compute queries on the collected data. Little coordination and no communication is required among the data-owners or the clients. Our notion is general enough to capture many real world scenarios that require controlled computation on encrypted data, such as is required for contact tracing in the wake of a pandemic. Our leakage and performance profile is similar to that of conventional searchable encryption systems, while the functionality we offer is significantly richer.In more detail, the client specifies a query as a pair (Q, f) where Q is a filtering predicate which selects some subset of the dataset and f is a function on some computable values associated with the selected data. We provide efficient protocols for various functionalities of practical relevance. We demonstrate the utility, efficiency and scalability of our protocols via extensive experimentation. In particular, we evaluate the efficiency of our protocols in computations relevant to the Genome Wide Association Studies such as Minor Allele Frequency (MAF), Chi-square analysis and Hamming Distance.

Deduplication-Friendly Watermarking for Multimedia Data in Public Clouds.
To store large volumes of cloud data, cloud storage providers (CSPs) use deduplication, by which if data from multiple owners are identical, only one unique copy will be stored. Deduplication can achieve significant storage saving, benefiting both CSPs and data owners. However, for ownership protection, data owners may choose to transform their outsourced multimedia data to “protected formats” (e.g., by watermarking) which disturbs deduplication since identical data may be transformed differently by different data owners.In this work, we initiate research of resolving the fundamental conflict between deduplication and watermarking. We propose DEW, the first secure Deduplication-friEndly Watermarking scheme which neither requires any interaction among data owners beforehand nor requires any trusted third party. Our key idea is to introduce novel protocols which can ensure that identical data possessed by different data owners are watermarked to the same “protected format”. Security analysis and experimental evaluation justify security and practicality of DEW.

DANTE: A Framework for Mining and Monitoring Darknet Traffic.
Trillions of network packets are sent over the Internet to destinations which do not exist. This ‘darknet’ traffic captures the activity of botnets and other malicious campaigns aiming to discover and compromise devices around the world. In this paper, we present DANTE: a framework and algorithm for mining darknet traffic. DANTE learns the meaning of targeted network ports by applying Word2Vec to observed port sequences. To detect recurring behaviors and new emerging threats, DANTE uses a novel and incremental time-series cluster tracking algorithm on the observed sequences. To evaluate the system, we ran DANTE on a full year of darknet traffic (over three Tera-Bytes) collected by the largest telecommunications provider in Europe, Deutsche Telekom and analyzed the results. DANTE discovered 1,177 new emerging threats and was able to track malicious campaigns over time.

Efficient Quantification of Profile Matching Risk in Social Networks Using Belief Propagation.
Many individuals share their opinions (e.g., on political issues) or sensitive information about them (e.g., health status) on the internet in an anonymous way to protect their privacy. However, anonymous data sharing has been becoming more challenging in today’s interconnected digital world, especially for individuals that have both anonymous and identified online activities. The most prominent example of such data sharing platforms today are online social networks (OSNs). Many individuals have multiple profiles in different OSNs, including anonymous and identified ones (depending on the nature of the OSN). Here, the privacy threat is profile matching: if an attacker links anonymous profiles of individuals to their real identities, it can obtain privacy-sensitive information which may have serious consequences, such as discrimination or blackmailing. Therefore, it is very important to quantify and show to the OSN users the extent of this privacy risk. Existing attempts to model profile matching in OSNs are inadequate and computationally inefficient for real-time risk quantification. Thus, in this work, we develop algorithms to efficiently model and quantify profile matching attacks in OSNs as a step towards real-time privacy risk quantification. For this, we model the profile matching problem using a graph and develop a belief propagation (BP)-based algorithm to solve this problem in a significantly more efficient and accurate way compared to the state-of-the-art. We evaluate the proposed framework on three real-life datasets (including data from four different social networks) and show how users’ profiles in different OSNs can be matched efficiently and with high probability. We show that the proposed model generation has linear complexity in terms of number of user pairs, which is significantly more efficient than the state-of-the-art (which has cubic complexity). Furthermore, it provides comparable accuracy, precision, and recall compared to state-of-the-art. Thanks to the algorithms that are developed in this work, individuals will be more conscious when sharing data on online platforms. We anticipate that this work will also drive the technology so that new privacy-centered products can be offered by the OSNs.

Anonymity Preserving Byzantine Vector Consensus.
Collecting anonymous opinions has applications from whistleblowing to complex voting where participants rank candidates by order of preferences. Unfortunately, as far as we know there is no efficient distributed solution to this problem. Previous solutions either require trusted third parties, are inefficient or sacrifice anonymity.In this paper, we propose a distributed solution called the Anonymised Vector Consensus Protocol (AVCP) that reduces the problem of agreeing on a set of anonymous votes to the binary Byzantine consensus problem. The key idea to preserve the anonymity of voters—despite some of them acting maliciously—is to detect double votes through traceable ring signatures. AVCP is resilient-optimal as it tolerates up to a third of Byzantine participants. We show that our algorithm is correct and that it preserves anonymity with at most a linear communication overhead and constant message overhead when compared to a recent consensus baseline. Finally, we demonstrate empirically that the protocol is practical by deploying it on 100 machines geo-distributed in three continents: America, Asia and Europe. Anonymous decisions are reached within 10 s with a conservative choice of traceable ring signatures.

CANSentry: Securing CAN-Based Cyber-Physical Systems against Denial and Spoofing Attacks.
The Controller Area Network (CAN) has been widely adopted as the de facto standard to support the communication between the ECUs and other computing components in automotive and industrial control systems. In its initial design, CAN only provided very limited security features, which is seriously behind today’s standards for secure communication. The newly proposed security add-ons are still insufficient to defend against the majority of known breaches in the literature. In this paper, we first present a new stealthy denial of service (DoS) attack against targeted ECUs on CAN. The attack is hardly detectable since the actions are perfectly legitimate to the bus. To defend against this new DoS attack and other denial and spoofing attacks in the literature, we propose a CAN firewall, namely CANSentry, that prevents malicious nodes’ misbehaviors such as injecting unauthorized commands or disabling targeted services. We implement CANSentry on a cost-effective and open-source device, to be deployed between any potentially malicious CAN node and the bus, without needing to modify CAN or existing ECUs. We evaluate CANSentry on a testing platform built with parts from a modern car. The results show that CANSentry successfully prevents attacks that have shown to lead to safety-critical implications.

Distributed Detection of APTs: Consensus vs. Clustering.
Advanced persistent threats (APTs) demand for sophisticated traceability solutions capable of providing deep insight into the movements of the attacker through the victim’s network at all times. However, traditional intrusion detection systems (IDSs) cannot attain this level of sophistication and more advanced solutions are necessary to cope with these threats. A promising approach in this regard is Opinion Dynamics, which has proven to work effectively both theoretically and in realistic scenarios. On this basis, we revisit this consensus-based approach in an attempt to generalize a detection framework for the traceability of APTs under a realistic attacker model. Once the framework is defined, we use it to develop a distributed detection technique based on clustering, which contrasts with the consensus technique applied by Opinion Dynamics and interestingly returns comparable results.

Designing Reverse Firewalls for the Real World.
Reverse firewalls (RFs) were introduced by Mironov and Stephens-Davidowitz to address algorithm-substitution attacks (ASAs) in which an adversary subverts the implementation of a provably-secure cryptographic primitive to make it insecure. This concept was applied by Dodis et al. in the context of secure key exchange (handshake phase), where the adversary wants to exfiltrate sensitive information by using a subverted client implementation. RFs are used as a means of “sanitizing” the client-side protocol in order to prevent this exfiltration. In this paper, we propose a new security model for both the handshake and record layers, a.k.a. secure channel. We present a signed, Diffie-Hellman based secure channel protocol, and show how to design a provably-secure reverse firewall for it. Our model is stronger since the adversary has a larger surface of attacks, which makes the construction challenging. Our construction uses classical and off-the-shelf cryptography.

Follow the Blue Bird: A Study on Threat Data Published on Twitter.
Open Source Intelligence (OSINT) has taken the interest of cybersecurity practitioners due to its completeness and timeliness. In particular, Twitter has proven to be a discussion hub regarding the latest vulnerabilities and exploits. In this paper, we present a study comparing vulnerability databases between themselves and against Twitter. Although there is evidence of OSINT advantages, no methodological studies have addressed the quality and benefits of the sources available. We compare the publishing dates of more than nine-thousand vulnerabilities in the sources considered. We show that NVD is not the most timely or the most complete vulnerability database, that Twitter provides timely and impactful security alerts, that using diverse OSINT sources provides better completeness and timeliness of vulnerabilities, and provide insights on how to capture cybersecurity-relevant tweets.

Dynamic and Secure Memory Transformation in Userspace.
Continuous code re-randomization has been proposed as a way to prevent advanced code reuse attacks. However, recent research shows the possibility of exploiting the runtime stack even when performing integrity checks or code re-randomization protections. Additionally, existing re-randomization frameworks do not achieve strong isolation, transparency and efficiency when securing the vulnerable application. In this paper we present Chameleon, a userspace framework for dynamic and secure application memory transformation. Chameleon is an out-of-band system, meaning it leverages standard userspace primitives to monitor and transform the target application memory from an entirely separate process. We present the design and implementation of Chameleon to dynamically re-randomize the application stack slot layout, defeating recent attacks on stack object exploitation. The evaluation shows Chameleon significantly raises the bar of stack object related attacks with only a 1.1% overhead when re-randomizing every 50 ms.

Understanding the Security Risks of Docker Hub.
Docker has become increasingly popular because it provides efficient containers that are directly run by the host kernel. Docker Hub is one of the most popular Docker image repositories. Millions of images have been downloaded from Docker Hub billions of times. However, in the past several years, a number of high-profile attacks that exploit this key channel of image distribution have been reported. It is still unclear what security risks the new ecosystem brings. In this paper, we reveal, characterize, and understand the security issues with Docker Hub by performing the first large-scale analysis. First, we uncover multiple security-critical aspects of Docker images with an empirical but comprehensive analysis, covering sensitive parameters in run-commands, the executed programs in Docker images, and vulnerabilities in contained software. Second, we conduct a large-scale and in-depth security analysis against Docker images. We collect 2,227,244 Docker images and the associated meta-information from Docker Hub. This dataset enables us to discover many insightful findings. (1) run-commands with sensitive parameters expose disastrous harm to users and the host, such as the leakage of host files and display, and denial-of-service attacks to the host. (2) We uncover 42 malicious images that can cause attacks such as remote code execution and malicious cryptomining. (3) Vulnerability patching of software in Docker images is significantly delayed or even ignored. We believe that our measurement and analysis serves as an important first-step study on the security issues with Docker Hub, which calls for future efforts on the protection of the new Docker ecosystem.

DE-auth of the Blue! Transparent De-authentication Using Bluetooth Low Energy Beacon.
While user authentication (e.g., via passwords and/or biometrics) is considered important, the need for de-authentication is often underestimated. The so-called “lunchtime attack”, whereby a nearby attacker gains access to the casually departed user’s active log-in session, is a serious security risk that stems from lack of proper de-authentication. Although there have been several proposals for automatic de-authentication, all of them have certain drawbacks, ranging from user burden to deployment costs and high rate of false positives.In this paper we propose DE-auth of the Blue (DEB) – a cheap, unobtrusive, fast and reliable system based on the impact of the human body on wireless signal propagation. In DEB, the wireless signal emanates from a Bluetooth Low Energy Beacon, the only additional equipment needed. The user is not required to wear or to be continuously interacting with any device. DEB can be easily deployed at a very low cost. It uses physical properties of wireless signals that cannot be trivially manipulated by an attacker. DEB recognizes when the user physically steps away from the workstation, and transparently de-authenticates her in less than three seconds. We implemented DEB and conducted extensive experiments, showing a very high success rate, with a low risk of false positives when two beacons are used.

Similarity of Binaries Across Optimization Levels and Obfuscation.
Binary code similarity evaluation has been widely applied in security. Unfortunately, the compiler optimization and obfuscation techniques exert challenges that have not been well addressed by existing approaches. In this paper, we propose a prototype, ImOpt, for re-optimizing code to boost similarity evaluation. The key contribution is an immediate SSA (static single-assignment) transforming algorithm to provide a very fast pointer analysis for re-optimizing more thoroughly. The algorithm transforms variables and even pointers into SSA form on the fly, so that the information on def-use and reachability can be maintained promptly. By utilizing the immediate SSA transforming algorithm, ImOpt canonicalizes and eliminates junk code to alleviate the perturbation from optimization and obfuscation.We illustrate that ImOpt can improve the accuracy of a state-of-the-art approach on similarity evaluation by 22.7%. Our experiment results demonstrate that the bottleneck part of our SSA transforming algorithm runs 15.7x faster than one of the best similar methods. Furthermore, we show that ImOpt is robust to many obfuscation techniques that based on data dependency.

HART: Hardware-Assisted Kernel Module Tracing on Arm.
While the usage of kernel modules has become more prevalent from mobile to IoT devices, it poses an increased threat to computer systems since the modules enjoy high privileges as the main kernel but lack the matching robustness and security. In this work, we propose HART, a modular and dynamic tracing framework enabled by the Embedded Trace Macrocell (ETM) debugging feature in Arm processors. Powered by even the minimum supports of ETM, HART can trace binary-only modules without any modification to the main kernel efficiently, and plug and play on any module at any time. Besides, HART provides convenient interfaces for users to further build tracing-based security solutions, such as the modular AddressSanitizer HASAN we demonstrated. Our evaluation shows that HART and HASAN incur the average overhead of 5% and 6% on 6 widely-used benchmarks, and HASAN detects all vulnerabilities in various types, proving their efficiency and effectiveness.

Zipper Stack: Shadow Stacks Without Shadow.
Return-Oriented Programming (ROP) is a typical attack technique that exploits return addresses to abuse existing code repeatedly. Most of the current return address protecting mechanisms (also known as the Backward-Edge Control-Flow Integrity) work only in limited threat models. For example, the attacker cannot break memory isolation, or the attacker has no knowledge of a secret key or random values.This paper presents a novel, lightweight mechanism protecting return addresses, Zipper Stack, which authenticates all return addresses by a chain structure using cryptographic message authentication codes (MACs). This innovative design can defend against the most powerful attackers who have full control over the program’s memory and even know the secret key of the MAC function. This threat model is stronger than the one used in related work. At the same time, it produces low-performance overhead. We implemented Zipper Stack by extending the RISC-V instruction set architecture, and the evaluation on FPGA shows that the performance overhead of Zipper Stack is only 1.86%. Thus, we think Zipper Stack is suitable for actual deployment.

Restructured Cloning Vulnerability Detection Based on Function Semantic Reserving and Reiteration Screening.
Although code cloning may speed up the process of software development, it could be detrimental to the software security as undiscovered vulnerabilities can be easily propagated through code clones. Even worse, since developers tend not to simply clone the original code fragments, but also add variable and debug statements, detecting propagated vulnerable code clone is challenging. A few approaches have been proposed to detect such vulnerability- named as restructured cloning vulnerability; However, they usually cannot effectively obtain the vulnerability context and related semantic information. To address this limitation, we propose in this paper a novel approach, called RCVD++, for detecting restructured cloning vulnerabilities, which introduces a new feature extraction for vulnerable code based on program slicing and optimizes the code abstraction and detection granularity. Our approach further features reiteration screening to compensate for the lack of retroactive detection of fingerprint matching. Compared with our previous work RCVD, RCVD++ innovatively utilizes two granularities including line and function, allowing additional detection for exact and renamed clones. Besides, it retains more semantics by identifying library functions and reduces the false positives by screening the detection results. The experimental results on three different datasets indicate that RCVD++ performs better than other detection tools for restructured cloning vulnerability detection.

LegIoT: Ledgered Trust Management Platform for IoT.
We investigate and address the currently unsolved problem of trust establishment in large-scale Internet of Things (IoT) networks where heterogeneous devices and mutually mistrusting stakeholders are involved. We design, prototype and evaluate LegIoT, a novel, probabilistic trust management system that enables secure, dynamic and flexible (yet inexpensive) trust relationships in large IoT networks. The core component of LegIoT is a novel graph-based scheme that allows network devices (graph nodes) to re-use the already existing trust associations (graph edges) very efficiently; thus, significantly reducing the number of individually conducted trust assessments. Since no central trusted third party exists, LegIoT leverages Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) to create and manage the trust relation graph in a decentralized manner. The trust assessment among devices can be instantiated by any appropriate assessment technique, for which we focus on remote attestation (integrity verification) in this paper. We prototyped LegIoT for Hyperledger Sawtooth and demonstrated through evaluation that the number of trust assessments in the network can be significantly reduced – e.g., by a factor of 20 for a network of 400 nodes and factor 5 for 1000 nodes.

PrivColl: Practical Privacy-Preserving Collaborative Machine Learning.
Collaborative learning enables two or more participants, each with their own training dataset, to collaboratively learn a joint model. It is desirable that the collaboration should not cause the disclosure of either the raw datasets of each individual owner or the local model parameters trained on them. This privacy-preservation requirement has been approached through differential privacy mechanisms, homomorphic encryption (HE) and secure multiparty computation (MPC), but existing attempts may either introduce the loss of model accuracy or imply significant computational and/or communicational overhead.In this work, we address this problem with the lightweight additive secret sharing technique. We propose PrivColl, a framework for protecting local data and local models while ensuring the correctness of training processes. PrivColl  employs secret sharing technique for securely evaluating addition operations in a multiparty computation environment, and achieves practicability by employing only the homomorphic addition operations. We formally prove that it guarantees privacy preservation even though the majority (\(n-2\) out of n) of participants are corrupted. With experiments on real-world datasets, we further demonstrate that PrivColl  retains high efficiency. It achieves a speedup of more than 45X over the state-of-the-art MPC-/HE-based schemes for training linear/logistic regression, and 216X faster for training neural network.

An Efficient 3-Party Framework for Privacy-Preserving Neural Network Inference.
In the era of big data, users pay more attention to data privacy issues in many application fields, such as healthcare, finance, and so on. However, in the current application scenarios of machine learning as a service, service providers require users’ private inputs to complete neural network inference tasks. Previous works have shown that some cryptographic tools can be used to achieve the secure neural network inference, but the performance gap is still existed to make those techniques practical.In this paper, we focus on the efficiency problem of privacy-preserving neural network inference and propose novel 3-party secure protocols to implement amounts of nonlinear activation functions such as ReLU and Sigmod, etc. Experiments on five popular neural network models demonstrate that our protocols achieve about \(1.2\times \)–\(11.8\times \) and \(1.08\times \)–\(4.8\times \) performance improvement than the state-of-the-art 3-party protocols (SecureNN
[28]) in terms of computation and communication overhead. Furthermore, we are the first to implement the privacy-preserving inference of graph convolutional networks.

Deep Learning Side-Channel Analysis on Large-Scale Traces - A Case Study on a Polymorphic AES.
Code polymorphism is an approach to efficiently address the challenge of automatically applying the hiding of sensitive information leakage, as a way to protect cryptographic primitives against side-channel attacks (SCA) involving layman adversaries. Yet, recent improvements in SCA, involving more powerful threat models, e.g., using deep learning, emphasized the weaknesses of some hiding counter-measures. This raises two questions. On the one hand, the security of code polymorphism against more powerful attackers, which has never been addressed so far, might be affected. On the other hand, using deep learning SCA on code polymorphism would require to scale the state-of-the-art models to much larger traces than considered so far in the literature. Such a case typically occurs with code polymorphism due to the unknown precise location of the leakage from one execution to another. We tackle those questions through the evaluation of two polymorphic implementations of AES, similar to the ones used in a recent paper published in TACO 2019 
[6]. We show on our analysis how to efficiently adapt deep learning models used in SCA to scale on traces \(32\) folds larger than what has been done so far in the literature. Our results show that the targeted polymorphic implementations are broken within \(20\) queries with the most powerful threat models involving deep learning, whereas \(100,000\) queries would not be sufficient to succeed the attacks previously investigated against code polymorphism. As a consequence, this paper pushes towards the search of new polymorphic implementations secured against state-of-the-art attacks, which currently remains to be found.

Towards Poisoning the Neural Collaborative Filtering-Based Recommender Systems.
In this paper, we conduct a systematic study for the very first time on the poisoning attack to neural collaborative filtering-based recommender systems, exploring both availability and target attacks with their respective goals of distorting recommended results and promoting specific targets. The key challenge arises on how to perform effective poisoning attacks by an attacker with limited manipulations to reduce expense, while achieving the maximum attack objectives. With an extensive study for exploring the characteristics of neural collaborative filterings, we develop a rigorous model for specifying the constraints of attacks, and then define different objective functions to capture the essential goals for availability attack and target attack. Formulated into optimization problems which are in the complex forms of non-convex programming, these attack models are effectively solved by our delicately designed algorithms. Our proposed poisoning attack solutions are evaluated on datasets from different web platforms, e.g., Amazon, Twitter, and MovieLens. Experimental results have demonstrated that both of them are effective, soundly outperforming the baseline methods.

Data Poisoning Attacks Against Federated Learning Systems.
Federated learning (FL) is an emerging paradigm for distributed training of large-scale deep neural networks in which participants’ data remains on their own devices with only model updates being shared with a central server. However, the distributed nature of FL gives rise to new threats caused by potentially malicious participants. In this paper, we study targeted data poisoning attacks against FL systems in which a malicious subset of the participants aim to poison the global model by sending model updates derived from mislabeled data. We first demonstrate that such data poisoning attacks can cause substantial drops in classification accuracy and recall, even with a small percentage of malicious participants. We additionally show that the attacks can be targeted, i.e., they have a large negative impact only on classes that are under attack. We also study attack longevity in early/late round training, the impact of malicious participant availability, and the relationships between the two. Finally, we propose a defense strategy that can help identify malicious participants in FL to circumvent poisoning attacks, and demonstrate its effectiveness.

Interpretable Probabilistic Password Strength Meters via Deep Learning.
Probabilistic password strength meters have been proved to be the most accurate tools to measure password strength. Unfortunately, by construction, they are limited to solely produce an opaque security estimation that fails to fully support the user during the password composition. In the present work, we move the first steps towards cracking the intelligibility barrier of this compelling class of meters. We show that probabilistic password meters inherently own the capability to describe the latent relation between password strength and password structure. In our approach, the security contribution of each character composing a password is disentangled and used to provide explicit fine-grained feedback for the user. Furthermore, unlike existing heuristic constructions, our method is free from any human bias, and, more importantly, its feedback has a clear probabilistic interpretation.In our contribution: (1) we formulate the theoretical foundations of interpretable probabilistic password strength meters; (2) we describe how they can be implemented via an efficient and lightweight deep learning framework suitable for client-side operability.

Polisma - A Framework for Learning Attribute-Based Access Control Policies.
Attribute-based access control (ABAC) is being widely adopted due to its flexibility and universality in capturing authorizations in terms of the properties (attributes) of users and resources. However, specifying ABAC policies is a complex task due to the variety of such attributes. Moreover, migrating an access control system adopting a low-level model to ABAC can be challenging. An approach for generating ABAC policies is to learn them from data, namely from logs of historical access requests and their corresponding decisions. This paper proposes a novel framework for learning ABAC policies from data. The framework, referred to as Polisma, combines data mining, statistical, and machine learning techniques, capitalizing on potential context information obtained from external sources (e.g., LDAP directories) to enhance the learning process. The approach is evaluated empirically using two datasets (real and synthetic). Experimental results show that Polisma is able to generate ABAC policies that accurately control access requests and outperforms existing approaches.

A Framework for Evaluating Client Privacy Leakages in Federated Learning.
Federated learning (FL) is an emerging distributed machine learning framework for collaborative model training with a network of clients (edge devices). FL offers default client privacy by allowing clients to keep their sensitive data on local devices and to only share local training parameter updates with the federated server. However, recent studies have shown that even sharing local parameter updates from a client to the federated server may be susceptible to gradient leakage attacks and intrude the client privacy regarding its training data. In this paper, we present a principled framework for evaluating and comparing different forms of client privacy leakage attacks. We first provide formal and experimental analysis to show how adversaries can reconstruct the private local training data by simply analyzing the shared parameter update from local training (e.g., local gradient or weight update vector). We then analyze how different hyperparameter configurations in federated learning and different settings of the attack algorithm may impact on both attack effectiveness and attack cost. Our framework also measures, evaluates, and analyzes the effectiveness of client privacy leakage attacks under different gradient compression ratios when using communication efficient FL protocols. Our experiments additionally include some preliminary mitigation strategies to highlight the importance of providing a systematic attack evaluation framework towards an in-depth understanding of the various forms of client privacy leakage threats in federated learning and developing theoretical foundations for attack mitigation.

An Accountable Access Control Scheme for Hierarchical Content in Named Data Networks with Revocation.
This paper presents a novel encryption-based access control scheme to address the access control issues in Named Data Networking (NDN). Though there have been several recent works proposing access control schemes, they are not suitable for many large scale real-world applications where content is often organized in a hierarchical manner (such as movies in Netflix) for efficient service provision. This paper uses a cryptographic technique, referred to as Role-Based Encryption, to introduce inheritance property for achieving access control over hierarchical contents. The proposed scheme encrypts the hierarchical content in such a way that any consumer who pays a higher level of subscription and is able to access (decrypt) contents in the higher part of the hierarchy is also able to access (decrypt) the content in the lower part of the hierarchy using their decryption keys. Additionally, our scheme provides many essential features such as authentication of the consumers at the very beginning before forwarding their requests into the network, accountability of the Internet Service Provider, consumers’ privilege revocations, etc. In addition, we present a formal security analysis of the proposed scheme showing that the scheme is provably secure against Chosen Plaintext Attack. Moreover, we describe the performance analysis showing that our scheme achieves better results than existing schemes in terms of functionality, computation, storage, and communication overhead. Our network simulations show that the main delay in our scheme is due to cryptographic operations, which are more efficient and hence our scheme is better than the existing schemes.

PGC: Decentralized Confidential Payment System with Auditability.
Many existing cryptocurrencies fail to provide transaction anonymity and confidentiality. As the privacy concerns grow, a number of works have sought to enhance privacy by leveraging cryptographic tools. Though strong privacy is appealing, it might be abused in some cases. In decentralized payment systems, anonymity poses great challenges to system’s auditability, which is a crucial property for scenarios that require regulatory compliance and dispute arbitration guarantee.Aiming for a middle ground between privacy and auditability, we introduce the notion of decentralized confidential payment (DCP) system with auditability. In addition to offering confidentiality, DCP supports privacy-preserving audit in which an external party can specify a set of transactions and then request the participant to prove their compliance with a large class of policies. We present a generic construction of auditable DCP system from integrated signature and encryption scheme and non-interactive zero-knowledge proof systems. We then instantiate our generic construction by carefully designing the underlying building blocks, yielding a standalone cryptocurrency called PGC. In PGC, the setup is transparent, transactions are less than 1.3 KB and take under 38ms to generate and 15 ms to verify.At the core of PGC is an additively homomorphic public-key encryption scheme that we newly introduce, twisted ElGamal, which is not only as secure as standard exponential ElGamal, but also friendly to Sigma protocols and Bulletproofs. This enables us to easily devise zero-knowledge proofs for basic correctness of transactions as well as various application-dependent policies in a modular fashion.

Secure Cloud Auditing with Efficient Ownership Transfer.
Cloud auditing with ownership transfer is a provable data possession scheme meeting verifiability and transferability simultaneously. In particular, not only cloud data can be transferred to other cloud clients, but also tags for integrity verification can be transferred to new data owners. More concretely, it requires that tags belonging to the old owner can be transformed into that of the new owner by replacing the secret key for tag generation while verifiability still remains. We found that existing solutions are less efficient due to the huge communication overhead linear with the number of tags. In this paper, we propose a secure auditing protocol with efficient ownership transfer for cloud data. Specifically, we sharply reduce the communication overhead produced by ownership transfer to be independent of the number of tags, making it with a constant size. Meanwhile, the computational cost during this process on both transfer parties is constant as well.

Encrypt-to-Self: Securely Outsourcing Storage.
We put forward a symmetric encryption primitive tailored towards a specific application: outsourced storage. The setting assumes a memory-bounded computing device that inflates the amount of volatile or permanent memory available to it by letting other (untrusted) devices hold encryptions of information that they return on request. For instance, web servers typically hold for each of the client connections they manage a multitude of data, ranging from user preferences to technical information like database credentials. If the amount of data per session is considerable, busy servers sooner or later run out of memory. One admissible solution to this is to let the server encrypt the session data to itself and to let the client store the ciphertext, with the agreement that the client reproduce the ciphertext in each subsequent request (e.g., via a cookie) so that the session data can be recovered when required.In this article we develop the cryptographic mechanism that should be used to achieve confidential and authentic data storage in the encrypt-to-self setting, i.e., where encryptor and decryptor coincide and constitute the only entity holding keys. We argue that standard authenticated encryption represents only a suboptimal solution for preserving confidentiality, as much as message authentication codes are suboptimal for preserving authenticity. The crucial observation is that such schemes instantaneously give up on all security promises in the moment the key is compromised. In contrast, data protected with our new primitive remains fully integrity protected and unmalleable. In the course of this paper we develop a formal model for encrypt-to-self systems, show that it solves the outsourced storage problem, propose surprisingly efficient provably secure constructions, and report on our implementations.

PGLP: Customizable and Rigorous Location Privacy Through Policy Graph.
Location privacy has been extensively studied in the literature. However, existing location privacy models are either not rigorous or not customizable, which limits the trade-off between privacy and utility in many real-world applications. To address this issue, we propose a new location privacy notion called PGLP, i.e., Policy Graph based Location Privacy, providing a rich interface to release private locations with customizable and rigorous privacy guarantee. First, we design a rigorous privacy for PGLP by extending differential privacy. Specifically, we formalize location privacy requirements using a location policy graph, which is expressive and customizable. Second, we investigate how to satisfy an arbitrarily given location policy graph under realistic adversarial knowledge, which can be seen as constraints or public knowledge about user’s mobility pattern. We find that a policy graph may not always be viable and may suffer location exposure when the attacker knows the user’s mobility pattern. We propose efficient methods to detect location exposure and repair the policy graph with optimal utility. Third, we design an end-to-end location trace release framework that pipelines the detection of location exposure, policy graph repair, and private location release at each timestamp with customizable and rigorous location privacy. Finally, we conduct experiments on real-world datasets to verify the effectiveness and the efficiency of the proposed algorithms.

Where Are You Bob? Privacy-Preserving Proximity Testing with a Napping Party.
Location based services (LBS) extensively utilize proximity testing to help people discover nearby friends, devices, and services. Current practices rely on full trust to the service providers: users share their locations with the providers who perform proximity testing on behalf of the users. Unfortunately, location data has been often breached by LBS providers, raising privacy concerns over the current practices. To address these concerns previous research has suggested cryptographic protocols for privacy-preserving location proximity testing. Yet general and precise location proximity testing has been out of reach for the current research. A major roadblock has been the requirement by much of the previous work that for proximity testing between Alice and Bob both must be present online. This requirement is not problematic for one-to-one proximity testing but it does not generalize to one-to-many testing. Indeed, in settings like ridesharing, it is desirable to match against ride preferences of all users, not necessarily ones that are currently online.This paper proposes a novel privacy-preserving proximity testing protocol where, after providing some data about its location, one party can go offline (nap) during the proximity testing execution, without undermining user privacy. We thus break away from the limitation of much of the previous work where the parties must be online and interact directly to each other to retain user privacy. Our basic protocol achieves privacy against semi-honest parties and can be upgraded to full security (against malicious parties) in a straight forward way using advanced cryptographic tools. Finally, we reduce the responding client overhead from quadratic (in the proximity radius parameter) to constant, compared to the previous research. Analysis and performance experiments with an implementation confirm our findings.

Distributed PCFG Password Cracking.
In digital forensics, investigators frequently face cryptographic protection that prevents access to potentially significant evidence. Since users prefer passwords that are easy to remember, they often unwittingly follow a series of common password-creation patterns. A probabilistic context-free grammar is a mathematical model that can describe such patterns and provide a smart alternative for traditional brute-force and dictionary password guessing methods. Because more complex tasks require dividing the workload among multiple nodes, in the paper, we propose a technique for distributed cracking with probabilistic grammars. The idea is to distribute partially-generated sentential forms, which reduces the amount of data necessary to transfer through the network. By performing a series of practical experiments, we compare the technique with a naive solution and show that the proposed method is superior in many use-cases.

Your PIN Sounds Good! Augmentation of PIN Guessing Strategies via Audio Leakage.
Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) are widely used as the primary authentication method for Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and Point of Sale (PoS). ATM and PoS typically mitigate attacks including shoulder-surfing by displaying dots on their screen rather than PIN digits, and by obstructing the view of the keypad. In this paper, we explore several sources of information leakage from common ATM and PoS installations that the adversary can leverage to reduce the number of attempts necessary to guess a PIN. Specifically, we evaluate how the adversary can leverage audio feedback generated by a standard ATM keypad to infer accurate inter-keystroke timing information, and how these timings can be used to improve attacks based on the observation of the user’s typing behavior, partial PIN information, and attacks based on thermal cameras. Our results show that inter-keystroke timings can be extracted from audio feedback far more accurately than from previously explored sources (e.g., videos). In our experiments, this increase in accuracy translated to a meaningful increase in guessing performance. Further, various combinations of these sources of information allowed us to guess between 44% and 89% of the PINs within 5 attempts. Finally, we observed that based on the type of information available to the adversary, and contrary to common knowledge, uniform PIN selection is not necessarily the best strategy. We consider these results relevant and important, as they highlight a real threat to any authentication system that relies on PINs.

GDPR - Challenges for Reconciling Legal Rules with Technical Reality.
The main real impact of the GDPR regulation of the EU should be improving the protection of data concerning physical persons. The sharp GDPR rules have to create a controllable information environment, and to prevent misuse of personal data. The general legal norms of GDPR may, indeed, be regarded as justified and well motivated by the existing threats, however, substantial problems emerge when we attempt to implement GDPR in a real information processing systems setting.This paper aims at bringing attention to some critical challenges related to the GDPR regulation from this technical implementation perspective. Our goal is to alert the community that due to incompatibility between the legal concepts (as understood by a layman) and the technical state-of-the-art, a literal implementation of the GDPR may, in fact, lead to a decrease in the attainable real security level, thus hurting privacy. Further, this situation may create barriers to information processing environments – including in critical evolving areas which are very important for citizens’ security and safety. Demonstrating the problem, we provide a (possibly incomplete) list of concrete major clashes between the legal concepts of GDPR and security technologies. We also discuss possible solutions to these problems (from a technology perspective), and review related activities.We hope that this work will encourage people to seek improvements and reforms of GDPR based on realistic privacy needs and computing goals, rather than the current situation where people involved in IT projects, merely attempt to only do things that are justified (and perhaps severely restricted) by GDPR.

Automatic Generation of Sources Lemmas in Tamarin: Towards Automatic Proofs of Security Protocols.
Tamarin is a popular tool dedicated to the formal analysis of security protocols. One major strength of the tool is that it offers an interactive mode, allowing to go beyond what push-button tools can typically handle. Tamarin is for example able to verify complex protocols such as TLS, 5G, or RFID protocols. However, one of its drawback is its lack of automation. For many simple protocols, the user often needs to help Tamarin by writing specific lemmas, called “sources lemmas”, which requires some knowledge of the internal behaviour of the tool.In this paper, we propose a technique to automatically generate sources lemmas in Tamarin. We prove formally that our lemmas indeed hold, for arbitrary protocols that make use of cryptographic primitives that can be modelled with a subterm convergent equational theory (modulo associativity and commutativity). We have implemented our approach within Tamarin. Our experiments show that, in most examples of the literature, we are now able to generate suitable sources lemmas automatically, in replacement of the hand-written lemmas. As a direct application, many simple protocols can now be analysed fully automatically, while they previously required user interaction.

When Is a Test Not a Proof?
A common primitive in election and auction protocols is a plaintext equivalence test (PET) in which two ciphertexts are tested for equality of their plaintexts, and a verifiable proof of the test’s outcome is provided. The most commonly-cited PETs require at least one honest party, but many applications claim universal verifiability, at odds with this requirement. If a test that relies on at least one honest participant is mistakenly used in a place where a universally verifiable proof is needed, then a collusion by all participants can insert a forged proof of equality into the tallying transcript. We show this breaks universal verifiability for the JCJ/Civitas scheme among others, because the only PETs they reference are not universally verifiable. We then demonstrate how to fix the problem.

Hardware Fingerprinting for the ARINC 429 Avionic Bus.
ARINC 429 is the most common data bus in use today in civil avionics. Despite this, the protocol lacks any form of source authentication. A technician with physical access to the bus is able to replace a transmitter by a rogue device, and receivers will accept its malicious data as they have no method of verifying the authenticity of messages.Updating the protocol would close off security loopholes in new aircrafts but would require thousands of airplanes to be modified. An interim solution is required. We propose a hardware fingerprinting method for the ARINC 429 data bus, and analyze its performance in a sender authentication setting. Our approach relies on the observation that changes in hardware, such as replacing a transmitter or a receiver with a rogue one, modify the electric signal of the transmission.In this paper we explore the feasibility of designing an intrusion detection system based on hardware fingerprinting. Our analysis includes both a theoretical Markov-chain model and an extensive empirical evaluation. For this purpose, we collected a data corpus of ARINC 429 data traces, which may be of independent interest since, to the best of our knowledge, no public corpus is available.In our experiments, we show that it is feasible for an intrusion detection system to achieve a near-zero false alarms per second, while detecting a rogue transmitter in under 50 ms, and detecting a rogue receiver in under 3 s. This would allow a rogue component installed by a malicious technician to be detected during the pre-flight checks, well before the aircraft takes off. This is made possible due to the fact that we rely on the analog properties, and not on the digital content of the transmissions. Thus we are able to detect a hardware switch as soon as it occurs, even if the data that is being transmitted is completely normal.

Semantic Definition of Anonymity in Identity-Based Encryption and Its Relation to Indistinguishability-Based Definition.
In this paper we point out an overlooked subtlety in providing proper security definitions of anonymous identity-based encryption (anonymous IBE) and its applications such as searchable encryption. Namely, we find that until now there is no discussion whether the widely used indistinguishability-based notion of anonymity for IBE implies simulation-based definition of anonymity, which directly captures the intuition that recipients’ IDs are not leaked from ciphertexts. We compensate this undesirable situation by providing a simulation-based notion, which requires that a ciphertext can be simulated without knowing the associated ID, by specializing the anonymity notion defined for more generalized notion of attribute-based encryption in previous work to the setting of IBE and then proving that this definition is equivalent to the conventional indistinguishability-based definition. We note that while the final result is something one would expect, our proof is not completely trivial. In particular, previous proofs that show the equivalence between semantic security and indistinguishability-based one in the setting where the security of payload is the main concern do not work immediately in our setting due to the difference between the semantics of identities and messages and the existence of the key extraction oracles.

SHECS-PIR: Somewhat Homomorphic Encryption-Based Compact and Scalable Private Information Retrieval.
A Private Information Retrieval (PIR) protocol allows a client to retrieve arbitrary elements from a database stored in a server without revealing to the server any information about the requested element. PIR is an important building block of many privacy-preserving protocols, and its efficient implementation is therefore of prime importance. Several concrete, practical PIR protocols have been proposed and implemented so far, particularly based on very low-depth somewhat homomorphic encryption. The main drawback of these protocols, however, is their large communication cost, especially in terms of the server’s reply, which grows like \(O(d\root d \of {n})\) for an n-element database, where d is a parameter typically chosen as 2 or 3.In this paper, we describe an efficient PIR protocol called SHECS-PIR, based on deeper circuits and GSW-style homomorphic encryption. SHECS-PIR reduces the communication cost down to \(O(\log n)\) removing all other factors apart from database size while maintaining a high level of efficiency. In fact, for large databases, we achieve faster server processing time in addition to more compact queries.

Puncturable Encryption: A Generic Construction from Delegatable Fully Key-Homomorphic Encryption.
Puncturable encryption (PE), proposed by Green and Miers at IEEE S&P 2015, is a kind of public key encryption that allows recipients to revoke individual messages by repeatedly updating decryption keys without communicating with senders. PE is an essential tool for constructing many interesting applications, such as asynchronous messaging systems, forward-secret zero round-trip time protocols, public-key watermarking schemes and forward-secret proxy re-encryptions. This paper revisits PEs from the observation that the puncturing property can be implemented as efficiently computable functions. From this view, we propose a generic PE construction from the fully key-homomorphic encryption, augmented with a key delegation mechanism (DFKHE) from Boneh et al. at Eurocrypt 2014. We show that our PE construction enjoys the selective security under chosen plaintext attacks (that can be converted into the adaptive security with some efficiency loss) from that of DFKHE in the standard model. Basing on the framework, we obtain the first post-quantum secure PE instantiation that is based on the learning with errors problem, selective secure under chosen plaintext attacks (CPA) in the standard model. We also discuss about the ability of modification our framework to support the unbounded number of ciphertext tags inspired from the work of Brakerski and Vaikuntanathan at CRYPTO 2016.

Linear Attack on Round-Reduced DES Using Deep Learning.
Linear attack is a powerful known-plaintext cryptanalysis method on block ciphers, which has been successfully applied in DES, KATAN, SPECK and other ciphers. In this paper, we use deep learning networks to achieve linear attack on DES with plain-cipher pairs. Comparing with traditional linear attack algorithm, our work requires less knowledge about complex cryptanalysis as neural network can work well by data-driven. Thus, this paper has three main contributions. First, a new linear attack architecture based on deep residual network was proposed to train discriminative neural networks with auto-generated plain-cipher pair data. The results indicate that trained neural networks can effectively learn algorithmic representations of the XOR distributions of given linear expression on DES. Second, several novel neural network-based algorithms were designed to efficiently enforce key recovery on round-reduced DES using trained networks with moderate full and partial bits of linear expression as inputs. Third, as far as we know, it is the first time that neural networks are used to achieve known-plaintext attack on complex block ciphers.

Detection by Attack: Detecting Adversarial Samples by Undercover Attack.
The safety of artificial intelligence systems has aroused great concern due to the vulnerability of deep neural networks. Studies show that malicious modifications to the inputs of a network classifier, can fool the classifier and lead to wrong predictions. These modified inputs are called adversarial samples. In order to resolve this challenge, this paper proposes a novel and effective framework called Detection by Attack (DBA) to detect adversarial samples by Undercover Attack. DBA works by converting the difficult adversarial detection problem into a simpler attack problem, which is inspired by the espionage technique. It appears to be attacking the system, but it is actually defending the system. Reviewing the literature shows that this paper is the first attempt to introduce a detection method that can effectively detect adversarial samples in both images and texts. Experimental results show that the DBA scheme yields state-of-the-art detection performances in both detector-unaware (\(95.66\%\) detection accuracy on average) and detector-aware (\(2.10\%\) attack success rate) scenarios. Furthermore, DBA is robust to the perturbation size and confidence of adversarial samples. The code is available at https://github.com/Mrzhouqifei/DBA.

Big Enough to Care Not Enough to Scare! Crawling to Attack Recommender Systems.
Online recommendation services, such as e-commerce sites, rely on a vast amount of knowledge about users/items that represent an invaluable resource. Part of this acquired knowledge is public and can be accessed by anyone through the Internet. Unfortunately, that same knowledge can be used by competitors or malicious users. A large body of research proposes methods to attack recommender systems, but most of these works assume that the attacker knows or can easily access the rating matrix. In practice, this information is not directly accessible, but can only be gathered via crawling.Considering such real-life limitations, in this paper, we assess the impact of different crawling approaches when attacking a recommendation service. From the crawled information, we mount different shilling attacks. We determine the value of the collected knowledge through the reconstruction of the user/item neighborhood. Our results show that while crawling can indeed bring knowledge to the attacker (up to 65% of neighborhood reconstruction), this will not be enough to mount a successful shilling attack in practice.


Active Re-identification Attacks on Periodically Released Dynamic Social Graphs.
Active re-identification attacks pose a serious threat to privacy-preserving social graph publication. Active attackers create fake accounts to enforce structural patterns that can be used to re-identify legitimate users on published anonymised graphs, even without additional background knowledge. So far, this type of attacks has only been studied in the scenario where the inherently dynamic social graph is published once. In this paper, we present the first active re-identification attack in the more realistic scenario where a dynamic social graph is periodically published. Our new attack leverages tempo-structural patterns, created by a dynamic set of sybil nodes, for strengthening the adversary. We evaluate our new attack through a comprehensive set of experiments on real-life and synthetic dynamic social graphs. We show that our new attack substantially outperforms the most effective static active attack in the literature by increasing success probability by at least two times and efficiency by at least 11 times. Moreover, we show that, unlike the static attack, our new attack remains at the same level of efficiency as the publication process advances. Additionally, we conduct a study on the factors that may thwart our new attack, which can help design dynamic graph anonymisation methods displaying a better balance between privacy and utility.

Fooling Primality Tests on Smartcards.
We analyse whether the smartcards of the JavaCard platform correctly validate primality of domain parameters. The work is inspired by Albrecht et al.
[1], where the authors analysed many open-source libraries and constructed pseudoprimes fooling the primality testing functions. However, in the case of smartcards, often there is no way to invoke the primality test directly, so we trigger it by replacing (EC)DSA and (EC)DH prime domain parameters by adversarial composites. Such a replacement results in vulnerability to Pohlig-Hellman
[30] style attacks, leading to private key recovery.Out of nine smartcards (produced by five major manufacturers) we tested (See https://crocs.fi.muni.cz/papers/primality_esorics20 for more information), all but one have no primality test in parameter validation. As the JavaCard platform provides no public primality testing API, the problem cannot be fixed by an extra parameter check, making it difficult to mitigate in already deployed smartcards.

An Optimizing Protocol Transformation for Constructor Finite Variant Theories in Maude-NPA.
Maude-NPA is an analysis tool for cryptographic security protocols that takes into account the algebraic properties of the cryptosystem. Maude-NPA can reason about a wide range of cryptographic properties. However, some algebraic properties, and protocols using them, have been beyond Maude-NPA capabilities, either because the cryptographic properties cannot be expressed using its equational unification features or because the state space is unmanageable. In this paper, we provide a protocol transformation that can safely get rid of cryptographic properties under some conditions. The time and space difference between verifying the protocol with all the crypto properties and verifying the protocol with a minimal set of the crypto properties is remarkable. We also provide, for the first time, an encoding of the theory of bilinear pairing into Maude-NPA that goes beyond the encoding of bilinear pairing available in the Tamarin tool.

On the Privacy Risks of Compromised Trigger-Action Platforms.
Trigger-action platforms empower users to interconnect various physical devices and online services with custom automation. While providing convenience, their centralized design raises privacy concerns for end users. Unlike prior work that consider privacy leakage to action services, we consider privacy leakage to compromised platforms. After investigating potential privacy exposure to a popular trigger-action platform, IFTTT, we identified three types of leakages: event data, trigger event presence, and device possession. We also found that 91% of the top 500 triggers on IFTTT potentially leak sensitive information to the platform, and 25% leak implicitly. To achieve the paradoxical goal of hiding the event data and presence while asking the platform to trigger corresponding actions when an event occurs, we propose Obfuscated Trigger-Action Platform (OTAP) and Anonymous Trigger-Action Platform (ATAP). ATAP additionally provides device set confidentiality at the cost of minor platform modification. Our schemes can preserve user privacy without sacrificing convenience, and are incrementally deployable in various use cases. Our work addresses a crucial missing piece in securing the trigger-action ecosystem, and can be integrated with solutions that ensure integrity against untrusted platforms or solutions that address untrusted vendor services and users.

Plenty of Phish in the Sea: Analyzing Potential Pre-attack Surfaces.
Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) are one of the main challenges in modern computer security. They are planned and performed by well-funded, highly-trained and often state-based actors. The first step of such an attack is the reconnaissance of the target. In this phase, the adversary tries to gather as much intelligence on the victim as possible to prepare further actions. An essential part of this initial data collection phase is the identification of possible gateways to intrude the target.In this paper, we aim to analyze the data that threat actors can use to plan their attacks. To do so, we analyze in a first step 93 APT reports and find that most (80%) of them begin by sending phishing emails to their victims. Based on this analysis, we measure the extent of data openly available of 30 entities to understand if and how much data they leak that can potentially be used by an adversary to craft sophisticated spear phishing emails. We then use this data to quantify how many employees are potential targets for such attacks. We show that 83% of the analyzed entities leak several attributes of uses, which can all be used to craft sophisticated phishing emails.

Towards Post-Quantum Security for Cyber-Physical Systems: Integrating PQC into Industrial M2M Communication.
The threat of a cryptographically relevant quantum computer contributes to an increasing interest in the field of post-quantum cryptography (PQC). Compared to existing research efforts regarding the integration of PQC into the Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol, industrial communication protocols have so far been neglected. Since industrial cyber-physical systems (CPS) are typically deployed for decades, protection against such long-term threats is needed. In this work, we propose two novel solutions for the integration of post-quantum (PQ) primitives (digital signatures and key establishment) into the industrial protocol Open Platform Communications Unified Architecture (OPC UA): a hybrid solution combining conventional cryptography with PQC and a solution solely based on PQC. Both approaches provide mutual authentication between client and server and are realized with certificates fully compliant to the X.509 standard. Moreover, we implement the two solutions and measure and evaluate their performance across three different security levels. All selected algorithms (Kyber, Dilithium, and Falcon) are candidates for standardization by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). We show that Falcon is a suitable option—especially—when using floating-point hardware provided by our ARM-based evaluation platform. Our proposed hybrid solution provides PQ security for early adopters but comes with additional performance and communication requirements. Our solution solely based on PQC shows superior performance across all evaluated security levels in terms of handshake duration compared to conventional OPC UA but comes at the cost of increased sizes for handshake messages.

CSH: A Post-quantum Secret Handshake Scheme from Coding Theory.
In secret handshake schemes, the members in the same organization can anonymously authenticate each other and commonly negotiate a secret key for communication. Since its proposing in 2003, secret handshake schemes become an important privacy protection cryptographic technique on internet applications. In this paper, a secret handshake scheme based on coding theory (we call \(\mathsf {CSH}\)) is presented. This is the first code-based secret handshake scheme. \(\mathsf {CSH}\) is constructed by combining the CFS signature system and Stern’s identification system, thus the security of \(\mathsf {CSH}\) relies on the syndrome decoding problem just like the two above systems. Moreover, as far as we know, \(\mathsf {CSH}\) is the first scheme to use a generic construction of Fiat-Shamir paradigm in secret handshake schemes. This may lead to a more generic framework construction.

A Verifiable and Practical Lattice-Based Decryption Mix Net with External Auditing.
Mix nets are often used to provide privacy in modern security protocols, through shuffling. Some of the most important applications, such as secure electronic voting, require mix nets that are verifiable. In the literature, numerous techniques have been proposed to make mix nets verifiable. Some of them have also been employed for securing real political elections.With the looming possibility of quantum computers and their threat to cryptosystems based on classical hardness assumptions, there is significant pressure to migrate mix nets to post-quantum alternatives. At present, no verifiable and practical post-quantum mix net with external auditing is available as a drop-in replacement of existing constructions. In this paper, we give the first such construction.We propose a verifiable decryption mix net which solely employs practical lattice-based primitives. We formally prove that our mix net provides a high level of verifiability, and even accountability which guarantees that misbehaving mix servers can also be identified. Verification is executed by a (temporarily trusted) public auditor whose role can easily be distributed. To demonstrate practicality for real-world systems, we provide detailed performance benchmarks on our stand-alone implementation based only on the most conservative lattice hardness assumptions.

A Lattice-Based Key-Insulated and Privacy-Preserving Signature Scheme with Publicly Derived Public Key.
As a widely used privacy-preserving technique for cryptocurrencies, Stealth Address constitutes a key component of Ring Confidential Transaction (RingCT) protocol and it was adopted by Monero, one of the most popular privacy-centric cryptocurrencies. Recently, Liu et al. [EuroS&P 2019] pointed out a flaw in the current widely used stealth address algorithm that once a derived secret key is compromised, the damage will spread to the corresponding master secret key, and all the derived secret keys thereof. To address this issue, Liu et al. introduced Key-Insulated and Privacy-Preserving Signature Scheme with Publicly Derived Public Key (PDPKS scheme), which captures the functionality, security, and privacy requirements of stealth address in cryptocurrencies. They further proposed a paring-based PDPKS construction and thus provided a provably secure stealth address algorithm. However, while other privacy-preserving cryptographic tools for RingCT, such as ring signature, commitment, and range proof, have successfully found counterparts on lattices, the development of lattice-based stealth address scheme lags behind and hinders the development of quantum-resistant privacy-centric cryptocurrencies following the RingCT approach.In this paper, we propose the first lattice-based PDPKS scheme and prove its security in the random oracle model. The scheme provides (potentially) quantum security not only for the stealth address algorithm but also for the deterministic wallet. Prior to this, the existing deterministic wallet algorithms, which have been widely adopted by most Bitcoin-like cryptocurrencies due to its easy backup/recovery and trustless audits, are not quantum resistant.

Post-Quantum Adaptor Signatures and Payment Channel Networks.
  Adaptor signatures, also known as scriptless scripts, have recently become an important tool in addressing the scalability and interoperability issues of blockchain applications such as cryptocurrencies. An adaptor signature extends a digital signature in a way that a complete signature reveals a secret based on a cryptographic condition. It brings about various advantages such as (i) low on-chain cost, (ii) improved fungibility of transactions, and (iii) advanced functionality beyond the limitation of the blockchain’s scripting language.In this work, we introduce the first post-quantum adaptor signature, named \({\mathsf {LAS}}\). Our construction relies on the standard lattice assumptions, namely Module-SIS and Module-LWE. There are certain challenges specific to the lattice setting, arising mainly from the so-called knowledge gap in lattice-based proof systems, that makes the realization of an adaptor signature and its applications difficult. We show how to overcome these technical difficulties without introducing additional on-chain costs. Our evaluation demonstrates that \({\mathsf {LAS}}\) is essentially as efficient as an ordinary lattice-based signature in terms of both communication and computation. We further show how to achieve post-quantum atomic swaps and payment channel networks using \({\mathsf {LAS}}\).

Linear-Complexity Private Function Evaluation is Practical.
Private function evaluation (PFE) allows to obliviously evaluate a private function on private inputs. PFE has several applications such as privacy-preserving credit checking and user-specific insurance tariffs. Recently, PFE protocols based on universal circuits (UCs), that have an inevitable superlinear overhead, have been investigated thoroughly. Specialized public key-based protocols with linear complexity were believed to be less efficient than UC-based approaches.In this paper, we take another look at the linear-complexity PFE protocol by Katz and Malka (ASIACRYPT’11): We propose several optimizations and split the protocol in different phases that depend on the function and inputs respectively. We show that HE-based PFE is practical when instantiated with state-of-the-art ECC and RLWE-based homomorphic encryption. Our most efficient implementation outperforms the most recent UC-based PFE implementation of Alhassan et al. (JoC’20) in communication for all circuit sizes and in computation starting from circuits of a few thousand gates already.

Certifying Decision Trees Against Evasion Attacks by Program Analysis.
Machine learning has proved invaluable for a range of different tasks, yet it also proved vulnerable to evasion attacks, i.e., maliciously crafted perturbations of input data designed to force mispredictions. In this paper we propose a novel technique to verify the security of decision tree models against evasion attacks with respect to an expressive threat model, where the attacker can be represented by an arbitrary imperative program. Our approach exploits the interpretability property of decision trees to transform them into imperative programs, which are amenable for traditional program analysis techniques. By leveraging the abstract interpretation framework, we are able to soundly verify the security guarantees of decision tree models trained over publicly available datasets. Our experiments show that our technique is both precise and efficient, yielding only a minimal number of false positives and scaling up to cases which are intractable for a competitor approach.

They Might NOT Be Giants Crafting Black-Box Adversarial Examples Using Particle Swarm Optimization.
As machine learning is deployed in more settings, including in security-sensitive applications such as malware detection, the risks posed by adversarial examples that fool machine-learning classifiers have become magnified. Black-box attacks are especially dangerous, as they only require the attacker to have the ability to query the target model and observe the labels it returns, without knowing anything else about the model. Current black-box attacks either have low success rates, require a high number of queries, produce adversarial images that are easily distinguishable from their sources, or are not flexible in controlling the outcome of the attack. In this paper, we present AdversarialPSO, (Code available: https://github.com/rhm6501/AdversarialPSOImages) a black-box attack that uses few queries to create adversarial examples with high success rates. AdversarialPSO is based on Particle Swarm Optimization, a gradient-free evolutionary search algorithm, with special adaptations to make it effective for the black-box setting. It is flexible in balancing the number of queries submitted to the target against the quality of the adversarial examples. We evaluated AdversarialPSO on CIFAR-10, MNIST, and Imagenet, achieving success rates of 94.9%, 98.5%, and 96.9%, respectively, while submitting numbers of queries comparable to prior work. Our results show that black-box attacks can be adapted to favor fewer queries or higher quality adversarial images, while still maintaining high success rates.


Understanding Object Detection Through an Adversarial Lens.
Deep neural networks based object detection models have revolutionized computer vision and fueled the development of a wide range of visual recognition applications. However, recent studies have revealed that deep object detectors can be compromised under adversarial attacks, causing a victim detector to detect no object, fake objects, or mislabeled objects. With object detection being used pervasively in many security-critical applications, such as autonomous vehicles and smart cities, we argue that a holistic approach for an in-depth understanding of adversarial attacks and vulnerabilities of deep object detection systems is of utmost importance for the research community to develop robust defense mechanisms. This paper presents a framework for analyzing and evaluating vulnerabilities of the state-of-the-art object detectors under an adversarial lens, aiming to analyze and demystify the attack strategies, adverse effects, and costs, as well as the cross-model and cross-resolution transferability of attacks. Using a set of quantitative metrics, extensive experiments are performed on six representative deep object detectors from three popular families (YOLOv3, SSD, and Faster R-CNN) with two benchmark datasets (PASCAL VOC and MS COCO). We demonstrate that the proposed framework can serve as a methodical benchmark for analyzing adversarial behaviors and risks in real-time object detection systems. We conjecture that this framework can also serve as a tool to assess the security risks and the adversarial robustness of deep object detectors to be deployed in real-world applications.

Signatures with Tight Multi-user Security from Search Assumptions.
We construct two tightly secure signature schemes based on the computational Diffie-Hellman (CDH) and factoring assumptions in the random oracle model. Our schemes are proven secure in the multi-user setting, and their security loss is constant and does not depend on the number of users or signing queries. They are the first schemes that achieve this based on standard search assumptions, as all existing schemes we are aware of are either based on stronger decisional assumptions, or proven tightly secure in the less realistic single-user setting. Under a concrete estimation, in a truly large scale, the cost of our CDH-based scheme is about half of Schnorr and DSA (in terms of signature size and running time for signing).

Biased RSA Private Keys: Origin Attribution of GCD-Factorable Keys.
In 2016, Švenda et al. (USENIX 2016, The Million-key Question) reported that the implementation choices in cryptographic libraries allow for qualified guessing about the origin of public RSA keys. We extend the technique to two new scenarios when not only public but also private keys are available for the origin attribution – analysis of a source of GCD-factorable keys in IPv4-wide TLS scans and forensic investigation of an unknown source. We learn several representatives of the bias from the private keys to train a model on more than 150 million keys collected from 70 cryptographic libraries, hardware security modules and cryptographic smartcards. Our model not only doubles the number of distinguishable groups of libraries (compared to public keys from Švenda et al.) but also improves more than twice in accuracy w.r.t. random guessing when a single key is classified. For a forensic scenario where at least 10 keys from the same source are available, the correct origin library is correctly identified with average accuracy of 89% compared to 4% accuracy of a random guess. The technique was also used to identify libraries producing GCD-factorable TLS keys, showing that only three groups are the probable suspects.

MAC-in-the-Box: Verifying a Minimalistic Hardware Design for MAC Computation.
We study the verification of security properties at the state machine level of a minimalistic device, called the MAC-in-the-Box (MITB). This device computes a message authentication code based on the SHA-3 hash function and a key that is stored on device, but never output directly. It is designed for secure password storage, but may also be used for secure key-exchange and second-factor authentication. We formally verify, in the HOL4 theorem prover, that no outside observer can distinguish this device from an ideal functionality that provides only access to a hashing oracle. Furthermore, we propose protocols for the MITB’s use in password storage, key-exchange and second-factor authentication, and formally show that it improves resistance against host-compromise in these three application scenarios.


Evaluating the Effectiveness of Heuristic Worst-Case Noise Analysis in FHE.
The purpose of this paper is to test the accuracy of worst-case heuristic bounds on the noise growth in ring-based homomorphic encryption schemes. We use the methodology of Iliashenko (Ph.D. thesis, 2019) to provide a new heuristic noise analysis for the BGV scheme. We demonstrate that for both the BGV and FV schemes, this approach gives tighter bounds than previous heuristic approaches, by as much as 10 bits of noise budget. Then, we provide experimental data on the noise growth of HElib and SEAL ciphertexts, in order to evaluate how well the heuristic bounds model the noise growth in practice. We find that, in spite of our improvements, there is still a gap between the heuristic estimate of the noise and the observed noise in practice. We extensively justify that a heuristic worst-case approach inherently leads to this gap, and hence leads to selecting significantly larger parameters than needed. As an additional contribution, we update the comparison between the two schemes presented by Costache and Smart (CT-RSA, 2016). Our new analysis shows that the practical crossover point at which BGV begins to outperform FV occurs for very large plaintext moduli, well beyond the crossover point reported by Costache and Smart.

How to Model the Bribery Attack: A Practical Quantification Method in Blockchain.
Due to substantial profit gain and economic rewards, decentralized cryptocurrency systems have become primary targets for attackers. Double-spending is one of the most rudimentary and collective risks. Even without high hash power, attackers can still increase the probability of double-spending by bribing other miners to subvert the consensus agreement. This kind of attack is called bribery attack and a number of bribery attack models have been proposed during last few years. The evaluation and comparison of bribery attack models remain problematic due to the lack of systematic methods to quantify them. In particular, the costs and benefits of attackers are rarely considered which influenced by many factors. We propose a quantitative analysis method for previous bribery attack models. For further exploration, we design a bribery attack model and introduce profit formulations based on our analysis method. We experimentally prove that our model can reduce costs and increase benefits of bribery attacks compared with comparable models. The result shows our quantitative method is instructive both for bribery attack designing and analyzing.

Updatable Blockchains.
Software updates for blockchain systems become a real challenge when they impact the underlying consensus mechanism. The activation of such changes might jeopardize the integrity of the blockchain by resulting in chain splits. Moreover, the software update process should be handed over to the community and this means that the blockchain should support updates without relying on a trusted party. In this paper, we introduce the notion of updatable blockchains and show how to construct blockchains that satisfy this definition. Informally, an updatable blockchain is a secure blockchain and in addition it allows to update its protocol preserving the history of the chain. In this work, we focus only on the processes that allow securely switching from one blockchain protocol to another assuming that the blockchain protocols are correct. That is, we do not aim at providing a mechanism that allows reaching consensus on what is the code of the new blockchain protocol. We just assume that such a mechanism exists (like the one proposed in NDSS 2019 by Zhang et al.), and show how to securely go from the old protocol to the new one. The contribution of this paper can be summarized as follows. We provide the first formal definition of updatable ledgers and propose the description of two compilers. These compilers take a blockchain and turn it into an updatable blockchain. The first compiler requires the structure of the current and the updated blockchain to be very similar (only the structure of the blocks can be different) but it allows for an update process more simple, efficient. The second compiler that we propose is very generic (i.e., makes few assumptions on the similarities between the structure of the current blockchain and the update blockchain). The drawback of this compiler is that it requires the new blockchain to be resilient against a specific adversarial behaviour and requires all the honest parties to be online during the update process. However, we show how to get rid of the latest requirement (the honest parties being online during the update) in the case of proof-of-work and proof-of-stake ledgers.

PrivacyGuard: Enforcing Private Data Usage Control with Blockchain and Attested Off-Chain Contract Execution.
The abundance and rich varieties of data are enabling many transformative applications of big data analytics that have profound societal impacts. However, there are also increasing concerns regarding the improper use of individual data owner’s private data. In this paper, we propose PrivacyGuard, a system that leverages blockchain smart contract and trusted execution environment (TEE) to enable individual’s control over the access and usage of their private data. Smart contracts are used to specify data usage policy, i.e., who can use what data under which conditions and what analytics to perform, while the distributed blockchain ledger is used to keep an irreversible and non-repudiable data usage record. To address the efficiency problem of on-chain contract execution and to prevent exposing private data on the publicly viewable blockchain, PrivacyGuard incorporates a novel TEE-based off-chain contract execution engine along with a protocol to securely commit the execution result onto blockchain. We have built and deployed a prototype of PrivacyGuard with Ethereum and Intel SGX. Our experiment result demonstrates that PrivacyGuard fulfills the promised privacy goal and supports analytics on data from a considerable number of data owners.


Identity-Based Authenticated Encryption with Identity Confidentiality.
Identity-based cryptography (IBC) is fundamental to security and privacy protection. Identity-based authenticated encryption (i.e., signcryption) is an important IBC primitive, which has numerous and promising applications. After two decades of research on signcryption, recently a new cryptographic primitive, named higncryption, was proposed. Higncryption can be viewed as privacy-enhanced signcryption, which integrates public key encryption, entity authentication, and identity concealment (which is not achieved in signcryption) into a monolithic primitive. Here, briefly speaking, identity concealment means that the transcript of protocol runs should not leak participants’ identity information.In this work, we propose the first identity-based higncryption (\(\mathsf {IBHigncryption}\)). The most impressive feature of \(\mathsf {IBHigncryption}\), among others, is its simplicity and efficiency. The proposed \(\mathsf {IBHigncryption}\) scheme is essentially as efficient as the fundamental CCA-secure Boneh-Franklin IBE scheme
[12], while offering entity authentication and identity concealment simultaneously. Compared to the identity-based signcryption scheme
[8], which is adopted in the IEEE P1363.3 standard, our \(\mathsf {IBHigncryption}\) scheme is much simpler, and has significant efficiency advantage in total. Besides, our \(\mathsf {IBHigncryption}\) enjoys forward \(\mathsf {ID}\)-privacy, receiver deniability and x-security simultaneously. In addition, the proposed \(\mathsf {IBHigncryption}\) has a much simpler setup stage with smaller public parameters, which in particular does not have the traditional master public key.

Securing DNSSEC Keys via Threshold ECDSA from Generic MPC.
Deployment of DNSSEC, although increasing, still suffers from many practical issues that results in a false sense of security. While many domains outsource zone management, they also have to outsource DNSSEC key management to the DNS operator, making the operator an attractive target for attackers. Moreover, DNSSEC does not provide any sort of protection in the case the operator itself decides to serve false information, for example, if it gets compromised.In this work, we show how to use techniques from threshold ECDSA: (1) to protect keys such that domains do not reveal their signing keys to a DNS operator, and (2) to protect the operational integrity of DNS operator. As a result of being highly specialized, prior work on threshold ECDSA has focused on a limited set of threat models, and none have so far considered techniques to amortize signature generation. Our work takes a different approach and presents a generic technique for obtaining a threshold ECDSA protocol from any secure multiparty computation protocol that works over an appropriate finite field. We show how this technique lends itself to very efficient threshold signing protocols by comparing it against state-of-the-art protocols from both academia and industry. For similar threat models, our protocols are as fast as the previous best protocol in terms of signing, and up to an order of magnitude faster for key generation on a fast network. Finally, we show how to integrate our application into a widely used DNS management software and demonstrate through experiments the overhead compared to traditional DNSSECs.


On Private Information Retrieval Supporting Range Queries.
Private information retrieval (PIR) allows a client to retrieve data from a database without the database server learning what data is being retrieved. Although many PIR schemes have been proposed in the literature, almost all of these focus on retrieval of a single database element, and do not consider more flexible retrieval queries such as basic range queries. Furthermore, while practically-oriented database schemes aiming at providing flexible and privacy-preserving queries have been proposed, to the best of our knowledge, no formal treatment of range queries has been considered for these. In this paper, we firstly highlight that a simple extension of the standard PIR security notion to range queries, is insufficient in many usage scenarios, and propose a stronger security notion aimed at addressing this. We then show a simple generic construction of a PIR scheme meeting our stronger security notion, and propose a more efficient direct construction based on function secret sharing – while the former has a round complexity logarithmic in the size of the database, the round complexity of the latter is constant. Finally, we report on the practical performance of our direct construction.

2-hop Blockchain: Combining Proof-of-Work and Proof-of-Stake Securely.
Bitcoin-like blockchains use a proof-of-work (PoW) mechanism, where security holds if the majority of the computing power is under the control of honest players. However, this assumption has been seriously challenged recently, and Bitcoin-like systems fail if this assumption is violated. In this work we propose a novel 2-hop blockchain protocol that combines PoW and proof-of-stake (PoS) mechanisms. Our analysis shows that the protocol is secure as long as the honest players control a majority of the collective resources (which consist of both computing power and stake). In particular, even if the adversary controls more than 50% of the computing power, security still holds if the honest parties hold sufficiently high stake in the system. As an added contribution, our protocol also remains secure against adaptive adversaries.

Generic Superlight Client for Permissionless Blockchains.
We initiate a systematic study on the light-client protocol of permissionless blockchains, in the setting where full nodes and light clients are rational. In the game-theoretic model, we design a superlight-client protocol to enable a light client to employ some relaying full nodes (e.g., two or one) to read the blockchain. The protocol is “generic”, i.e., it can be deployed disregarding underlying consensuses, and it is also “superlight”, i.e., the computational cost of the light client to predicate the (non)existence of a transaction in the blockchain becomes a small constant. Since our protocol resolves a fundamental challenge of broadening the usage of blockchain technology, it captures a wide variety of important use-cases such as multi-chain wallets, DApp browsers and more.


LNBot: A Covert Hybrid Botnet on Bitcoin Lightning Network for Fun and Profit.
While various covert botnets were proposed in the past, they still lack complete anonymization for their servers/botmasters or suffer from slow communication between the botmaster and the bots. In this paper, we propose a new generation hybrid botnet that covertly and efficiently communicates over Bitcoin Lightning Network (LN), called LNBot. LN is a payment channel network operating on top of Bitcoin network for faster Bitcoin transactions with negligible fees. Exploiting various anonymity features of LN, we designed a scalable two-layer botnet which completely anonymize the identity of the botmaster. In the first layer, the botmaster sends commands anonymously to the C&C servers through LN transactions. Specifically, LNBot allows botmaster’s commands to be sent in the form of surreptitious multihop LN payments, where the commands are encoded with ASCII or Huffman encoding to provide covert communications. In the second layer, C&C servers further relay those commands to the bots they control in their mini-botnets to launch any type of attacks to victim machines. We implemented a proof-of-concept on the actual LN and extensively analyzed the delay and cost performance of LNBot. Our analysis show that LNBot achieves better scalibility compared to the other similar blockchain botnets with negligible costs. Finally, we also provide and discuss a list of potential countermeasures to detect LNBot activities and minimize its impacts.

