A Blockchain-Based Long-Term Time-Stamping Scheme.
Traditional time-stamping services confirm the existence time of data items by using a time-stamping authority. To eliminate trust requirements on this authority, decentralized Blockchain-based Time-Stamping (BTS) services have been proposed. In these services, a hash digest of users’ data is written into a blockchain transaction. The security of such services relies on the security of hash functions used to hash the data, and of the cryptographic algorithms used to build the blockchain. It is well-known that any single cryptographic algorithm has a limited lifespan due to the increasing computational power of attackers. This directly impacts the security of the BTS services from a long-term perspective. However, the topic of long-term security has not been discussed in the existing BTS proposals. In this paper, we propose the first formal definition and security model of a Blockchain-based Long-Term Time-Stamping (BLTTS) scheme. To develop a BLTTS scheme, we first consider an intuitive solution that directly combines the BTS services and a long-term secure blockchain, but we prove that this solution is vulnerable to attacks in the long term. With this insight, we propose the first BLTTS scheme supporting cryptographic algorithm renewal. We show that the security of our scheme over the long term is not limited by the lifespan of any underlying cryptographic algorithm, and we successfully implement the proposed scheme under existing BTS services.

Post-Quantum Verifiable Random Function from Symmetric Primitives in PoS Blockchain.
Verifiable Random Functions (VRFs) play a key role in Proof-of-Stake blockchains such as Algorand to achieve highly scalable consensus, but currently deployed VRFs lack post-quantum security, which is crucial for future-readiness of blockchain systems. This work presents the first quantum-safe VRF scheme based on symmetric primitives. Our main proposal is a practical many-time quantum-safe VRF construction, \(\mathsf {X\hbox {-}VRF}\), based on the \(\textsf{XMSS}\) signature scheme. An innovation of our work is to use the state of the blockchain to counter the undesired stateful nature of \(\textsf{XMSS}\) by constructing a blockchain-empowered VRF. While increasing the usability of \(\textsf{XMSS}\), our technique also enforces honest behavior when creating an \(\mathsf {X\hbox {-}VRF}\) output so as to satisfy the fundamental uniqueness property of VRFs. We show how \(\mathsf {X\hbox {-}VRF}\) can be used in the Algorand setting to extend it to a quantum-safe blockchain and provide four instances of \(\mathsf {X\hbox {-}VRF}\) with different key life-time. Our extensive performance evaluation, analysis and implementation indicate the effectiveness of our proposed constructions in practice. Particularly, we demonstrate that \(\mathsf {X\hbox {-}VRF}\) is the most efficient quantum-safe VRF with a maximum proof size of 3 KB and a possible TPS of 449 for a network of thousand nodes.

Opportunistic Algorithmic Double-Spending: - How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Fork.
In this paper, we outline a novel form of attack we refer to as Opportunistic Algorithmic Double-Spending (OpAl). OpAl attacks avoid equivocation, i.e., do not require conflicting transactions, and are carried out automatically in case of a fork. Algorithmic double-spending is facilitated through transaction semantics that dynamically depend on the context and ledger state at the time of execution. Hence, OpAl evades common double-spending detection mechanisms and can opportunistically leverage forks, even if the malicious sender themselves is not responsible for, or even actively aware of, any fork. Forkable ledger designs with expressive transaction semantics, especially stateful EVM-based smart contract platforms such as Ethereum, are particularly vulnerable. Hereby, the cost of modifying a regular transaction to opportunistically perform an OpAl attack is low enough to consider it a viable default strategy. While Bitcoin’s stateless UTXO model, or Cardano’s EUTXO model, appear more robust against OpAl, we nevertheless demonstrate scenarios where transactions are semantically malleable and thus vulnerable. To determine whether OpAl-like semantics can be observed in practice, we analyze the execution traces of \(922\,562\) transactions on the Ethereum blockchain. Hereby, we are able to identify transactions, which may be associated with frontrunning and MEV bots, that exhibit some of the design patterns also employed as part of the herein presented attack.

Zero-History Confidential Chains with Zero-Knowledge Contracts: A New Normal for Decentralized Ledgers?
Popular public blockchains face many problems due to their catastrophic blockchain sizes and verification time, e.g., lack of peer scalability, high computational fees, and impractical overheads for syncing. The origin of these problems is preserving everything that comes with the architecture of “append-only” blockchains, e.g., Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyperledger, etc. Zero-history blockchains like Origami address the root of these problems by removing the history. We propose two Origami confidential chains, classical and quantum-safe, with zero-knowledge contracts. This paper demonstrates that zero-history blockchains should be the new normal blockchain structure due to their high scalability even with post-quantum settings and zero-knowledge contracts.

Secure Hierarchical Deterministic Wallet Supporting Stealth Address.
Over the past decade, cryptocurrency has been undergoing a rapid development. Digital wallet, as the tool to store and manage the cryptographic keys, is the primary entrance for the public to access cryptocurrency assets. Hierarchical Deterministic Wallet (HDW), proposed in Bitcoin Improvement Proposal 32 (BIP32), has attracted much attention and been widely used in the community, due to its virtues such as easy backup/recovery, convenient cold-address management, and supporting trust-less audits and applications in hierarchical organizations. While HDW allows the wallet owner to generate and manage his keys conveniently, Stealth Address (SA) allows a payer to generate fresh address (i.e., public key) for the receiver without any interaction, so that users can achieve “one coin each address” in a very convenient manner, which is widely regarded as a simple but effective way to protect user privacy. Consequently, SA has also attracted much attention and been widely used in the community. However, as so far, there is not a secure wallet algorithm that provides the virtues of both HDW and SA. Actually, even for standalone HDW, to the best of our knowledge, there is no strict definition of syntax and models that captures the functionality and security (i.e., safety of coins and privacy of users) requirements that practical scenarios in cryptocurrency impose on wallet. As a result, the existing wallet algorithms either have (potential) security flaws or lack crucial functionality features.In this work, after investigating HDW and SA comprehensively and deeply, we formally define the syntax and security models of Hierarchical Deterministic Wallet supporting Stealth Address (HDWSA), capturing the functionality and security (including safety and privacy) requirements imposed by the practice in cryptocurrency, which include all the versatile functionalities that lead to the popularity of HDW and SA as well as all the security guarantees that underlie these functionalities. We propose a concrete HDWSA construction and prove its security in the random oracle model. We implement our scheme and the experimental results show that the efficiency is suitable for typical cryptocurrency settings.

Zero-Knowledge Age Restriction for GNU Taler.
We propose a design for a privacy-friendly method of age restriction in e-commerce that is aligned with the principle of subsidiarity. The design is presented as an extension of a privacy-friendly payment protocol with a zero-knowledge scheme that cryprographically augments coins for this purpose. Our scheme enables buyers to prove to be of sufficient age for a particular transaction without disclosing it. Our modification preserves the privacy and security properties of the payment system such as the anonymity of minors as buyers as well as unlinkability of transactions. We show how our scheme can be instantiated with ECDSA as well with a variant of EdDSA, respectively, and how it can be integrated with the GNU Taler payment system. We provide formal proofs and implementation of our proposal. Key performance measurements for various CPU architectures and implementations are presented.

Privacy Leakage in Privacy-Preserving Neural Network Inference.
The community has seen many attempts to secure machine learning algorithms from multi-party computation or other cryptographic primitives. An interesting 3-party framework (SCSDF hereafter) for privacy-preserving neural network inference was presented at ESORICS 2020. SCSDF defines several protocols for non-linear activation functions including ReLU, Sigmoid, etc. In particular, these protocols reckon on a protocol DReLU (derivative computation for ReLU function) they proposed as a building block. All protocols are claimed secure (against one single semi-honest corruption and against one malicious corruption). Unfortunately, the paper shows that there exists grievous privacy leakage of private inputs during SCSDF executions. This would completely destroy the framework security. We first give detailed cryptanalysis on SCSDF from the perspective of the real-ideal simulation paradigm and indicate that these claimed-secure protocols do not meet the underlying security model. We then go into particular steps in SCSDF and demonstrate that the signs of input data would be inevitably revealed to the (either semi-honest or malicious) third party responsible for assisting protocol executions. To show such leakage more explicitly, we perform plenteous experiment evaluations on the MNIST dataset, the CIFAR-10 dataset, and CFD (Chicago Face Database) for both ReLU and Sigmoid non-linear activation functions. All experiments succeed in disclosing original private data of the data owner in the inference process. Potential countermeasures are recommended and demonstrated as well.

Enhancing User Privacy in Mobile Devices Through Prediction of Privacy Preferences.
The multitude of applications and security configurations of mobile devices requires automated approaches for effective user privacy protection. Current permission managers, the core mechanism for privacy protection in smartphones, have shown to be ineffective by failing to account for privacy’s contextual dependency and personal preferences within context. In this paper we focus on the relation between privacy decisions (e.g. grant or deny a permission request) and their surrounding context, through an analysis of a real world dataset obtained in campaigns with 93 users. We leverage such findings and the collected data to develop methods for automated, personalized and context-aware privacy protection, so as to predict users’ preferences with respect to permission requests. Our analysis reveals that while contextual features have some relevance in privacy decisions, the increase in prediction performance of using such features is minimal, since two features alone are capable of capturing a relevant effect of context changes, namely the category of the requesting application and the requested permission. Our methods for prediction of privacy preferences achieved an F1 score of 0.88, while reducing the number of privacy violations by 28% when compared to the standard Android permission manager.

One Vote Is Enough for Analysing Privacy.
Electronic voting promises the possibility of convenient and efficient systems for recording and tallying votes in an election. To be widely adopted, ensuring the security of the cryptographic protocols used in e-voting is of paramount importance. However, the security analysis of this type of protocols raises a number of challenges, and they are often out of reach of existing verification tools.In this paper, we study vote privacy, a central security property that should be satisfied by any e-voting system. More precisely, we propose the first formalisation of the recent \(\textsf{BPRIV}\) notion in the symbolic setting. To ease the formal security analysis of this notion, we propose a reduction result allowing one to bound the number of voters and ballots needed to mount an attack. Our result applies on a number of case studies including several versions of Helios, Belenios, JCJ/Civitas, and Prêt-à-Voter. For some of these protocols, thanks to our result, we are able to conduct the analysis relying on the automatic tool Proverif.

Local Differential Privacy for Federated Learning.
Advanced adversarial attacks such as membership inference and model memorization can make federated learning (FL) vulnerable and potentially leak sensitive private data. Local differentially private (LDP) approaches are gaining more popularity due to stronger privacy notions and native support for data distribution compared to other differentially private (DP) solutions. However, DP approaches assume that the FL server (that aggregates the models) is honest (run the FL protocol honestly) or semi-honest (run the FL protocol honestly while also trying to learn as much information as possible). These assumptions make such approaches unrealistic and unreliable for real-world settings. Besides, in real-world industrial environments (e.g., healthcare), the distributed entities (e.g., hospitals) are already composed of locally running machine learning models (this setting is also referred to as the cross-silo setting). Existing approaches do not provide a scalable mechanism for privacy-preserving FL to be utilized under such settings, potentially with untrusted parties. This paper proposes a new local differentially private FL protocol (named LDPFL) for industrial settings. LDPFL can run in industrial settings with untrusted entities while enforcing stronger privacy guarantees than existing approaches. LDPFL shows high FL model performance (up to 98%) under small privacy budgets (e.g., \(\varepsilon = 0.5\)) in comparison to existing methods.


XSPIR: Efficient Symmetrically Private Information Retrieval from Ring-LWE.
Private Information Retrieval (PIR) allows a client to retrieve one entry from a database held by a server, while hiding from the server which entry has been retrieved. Symmetrically Private Information Retrieval (SPIR) additionally protects the privacy of the data, requiring that the client obtains only its desired entry, and no information on other data entries.In recent years, considerable effort has been expanded towards making PIR practical, reducing communication and computation. State-of-the-art PIR protocols are based on homomorphic encryption from the ring-LWE assumption. However, these efficient PIR protocols do not achieve database privacy, and leak a lot of information about other data entries, even when the client is honest. Generic transformation of these PIR protocols to SPIR have been suggested, but not implemented.In this paper, we propose XSPIR, a practically efficient SPIR scheme. Our scheme is based on homomorphic encryption from ring-LWE like recent PIR works, but achieves a stronger security guarantee with low performance overhead. We implement XSPIR, and run experiments comparing its performance against SealPIR (Angel et al., IEEE S &P 2018) and MulPIR (Ali et al., USENIX SECURITY 2021). We find that, even though our scheme achieves a stronger security guarantee, our performance is comparable to these state-of-the-art PIR protocols.

Scaling up GAEN Pseudorandom Processes: Preparing for a More Extensive Pandemic.
“Exposure Notification (EN) Systems” which have been envisioned by a number of academic and industry groups, are useful in aiding health authorities worldwide to fight the COVID-19 pandemic spread via contact tracing. Among these systems, many rely on the BLE based Google-Apple Exposure Notification (GAEN) API (for iPhones and Android systems).We assert that it is now the time to investigate how to deal with scale issues, assuming the next pandemic/ variant will be more extensive. To this end, we present two modular enhancements to scale up the GAEN API by improving performance and suggesting a better performance-privacy tradeoff. Our modifications have the advantage of affecting only the GAEN API modules and do not require any change to the systems built on top of it, therefore it can be easily adopted upon emerging needs. The techniques we suggest in this paper (called “dice and splice” and “forest from the PRF-tree”) are general and applicable to scenarios of searching values within anonymous pseudo-randomly generated sequences.

Generic Construction of Trace-and-Revoke Inner Product Functional Encryption.
A traitor tracing system is a multi-receiver encryption that allows an authority or an arbitrary party (in the case of public traceability) to identify malicious users (traitors) that collude to create a pirate decoder. A trace-and-revoke system is an extension of the traitor tracing system where there is an additional user revocation mechanism that the content distributor can use to disable the decryption capabilities of compromised keys. Trace-and-revoke systems have been extensively studied in the settings of broadcast encryption (BE), identity-based encryption (IBE), and attribute-based encryption (ABE), but not functional encryption (FE). Recently, Do, Phan and Pointcheval (CT-RSA’20) studied traitor tracing for FE and proposed the first traceable inner-product functional encryption (IPFE) scheme. However, their scheme is selectively secure against chosen-plaintext attacks and supports one-target black-box traceability (a weaker notion of black-box traceability). In addition, their scheme does not support public traceability nor user revocation. In this work, we study trace-and-revoke mechanisms for FE and propose the first efficient trace-and-revoke IPFE systems from standard assumptions. Our schemes support public, black-box traceability, and are proven adaptively secure against chosen-plaintext attacks in the standard model. Technically, our construction is generic and relies on a generic transformation from IPFE schemes to trace-and-revoke IPFE systems. For traitor tracing systems, our generic construction also implies the first traceable IPFE schemes that simultaneously support public, black-box traceability, and achieve adaptive security. This provides a significant improvement over the previous traceable IPFE construction by Do, Phan and Pointcheval.

Spatial Encryption Revisited: From Delegatable Multiple Inner Product Encryption and More.
Spatial encryption (SE), which involves encryption and decryption with affine/vector objects, was introduced by Boneh and Hamburg at Asiacrypt 2008. Since its introduction, SE has been shown as a versatile and elegant tool for implementing many other important primitives such as (Hierarchical) Identity-based Encryption ((H)IBE), Broadcast (H)IBE, Attribute-based Encryption, and Forward-secure cryptosystems.This paper revisits SE toward a more compact construction in the lattice setting. In doing that, we introduce a novel primitive called Delegatable Multiple Inner Product Encryption (DMIPE). It is a delegatable generalization of Inner Product Encryption (IPE) but different from the Hierarchical IPE (HIPE) (Okamoto and Takashima at Asiacrypt 2009). We point out that DMIPE and SE are equivalent in the sense that there are security-preserving conversions between them. As a proof of concept, we then successfully instantiate a concrete DMIPE construction relying on the hardness of the decisional learning with errors problem. In turn, the DMIPE design implies a more compact lattice-based SE in terms of sizes compared with SEs converted from HIPE (e.g., Xagawa’s HIPE at PKC 2013) using the framework by Chen et al. (Designs, Codes, and Cryptography, 2014). Furthermore, we demonstrate that one can also use SE to implement the Allow-/Deny-list encryption, which subsumes, e.g., puncturable encryption (Green and Miers at IEEE S &P 2015).

Public Key Authenticated Encryption with Keyword Search from LWE.
Public key encryption with keyword search (PEKS) inherently suffers from the inside keyword guessing attack. To resist against this attack, Huang et al. proposed the public key authenticated encryption with keyword search (PAEKS), where the sender not only encrypts a keyword, but also authenticates it. To further resist against quantum attacks, Liu et al. proposed a generic construction of PAEKS and the first quantum-resistant PAEKS instantiation based on lattices. Later, Emura pointed out some issues in Liu et al.’s construction and proposed a new generic construction of PAEKS. The basic construction methodology of Liu et al. and Emura is the same.In this paper, we first analyze the schemes of Liu et al. and Emura, and point out some issues regarding their construction and security model. In short, in their lattice-based instantiations, the sender and receiver use a lattice-based word independent smooth projective hash functions (SPHF) to compute the same shared key to authenticate keywords, leading to a super-polynomial modulus q; their generic constructions need a trusted setup assumption or the designated-receiver setting; Liu et al. failed to provide convincing evidence that their scheme satisfies their claimed security.Then, we propose two new lattice-based PAEKS schemes with totally different construction methodology from Liu et al. and Emura. Specifically, in our PAEKS schemes, instead of using the shared key calculated by SPHF, the sender and receiver achieve keyword authentication by using their own secret key to sample a set of short vectors related to the keyword. In this way, the modulus q in our schemes could be of polynomial size, which results in much smaller size of the public key, ciphertext and trapdoor. In addition, our schemes need neither a trusted setup assumption nor the designated-receiver setting. Finally, our schemes can be proven secure in stronger security model, and thus provide stronger security guarantee for both ciphertext privacy and trapdoor privacy.


An Efficient Query Recovery Attack Against a Graph Encryption Scheme.
Ghosh, Kamara and Tamassia (ASIA CCS 2021) presented a Graph Encryption Scheme supporting shortest path queries. We show how to perform a query recovery attack against this GKT scheme when the adversary is given the original graph together with the leakage of certain subsets of queries. Our attack falls within the security model used by Ghosh et al., and is the first targeting schemes supporting shortest path queries. Our attack uses classical graph algorithms to compute the canonical names of the single-destination shortest path spanning trees of the underlying graph and uses these canonical names to pre-compute the set of candidate queries that match each response. Then, when all shortest path queries to a single node have been observed, the canonical names for the corresponding query tree are computed and the responses are matched to the candidate queries from the offline phase. The output is guaranteed to contain the correct query. For a graph on n vertices, our attack runs in time \(O(n^3)\) and matches the time complexity of the GKT scheme’s setup. We evaluate the attack’s performance using the real world datasets used in the original paper and show that as many as 21.9% of the queries can be uniquely recovered and as many as 50% of the queries result in sets of only three candidates.

New Unbounded Verifiable Data Streaming for Batch Query with Almost Optimal Overhead.
Verifiable Data Streaming (VDS) enables a resource-limited client to continuously outsource data to an untrusted server in a sequential manner while supporting public integrity verification and efficient update. However, most existing VDS schemes require the client to generate all proofs in advance and store them at the server, which leads to a heavy computation burden on the client. In addition, all the previous VDS schemes can perform batch query (i.e., retrieving multiple data entries at once), but are subject to linear communication cost l, where l is the number of queried data. In this paper, we first introduce a new cryptographic primitive named Double-trapdoor Chameleon Vector Commitment (DCVC), and then present an unbounded VDS scheme \(\mathsf {VDS_1}\) with optimal communication cost in the random oracle model from aggregatable cross-commitment variant of DCVC. Furthermore, we propose, to our best knowledge, the first unbounded VDS scheme \(\textsf{VDS}_2\) with optimal communication and storage overhead in the standard model by integrating Double-trapdoor Chameleon Hash Function (DCH) and Key-Value Commitment (KVC). Both of our schemes enjoy constant-size public key. Finally, we demonstrate the efficiency of our two VDS schemes with a comprehensive performance evaluation.

A Formal Model for Credential Hopping Attacks.
Centrally-managed authentication schemes allow users of complex distributed systems to present the same credentials to multiple applications and computer systems. To further simplify the user’s experience, the credentials are often cached on those remote systems. However, caching credentials introduces the risk of malicious actors stealing and using these credentials to hop between systems within the network. This problem has been studied by modeling authentication events as a graph, and proposed solutions rely on altering key properties of a system’s authentication graph to reduce the likelihood of successful attacks. However, current approaches make numerous simplifying assumptions, fail to reflect the time-variant nature of many of the variables involved, and do not readily accommodate modeling the effects of a wide range of potential countermeasures. To address these limitations, this paper presents a formal model that describes credential hopping attacks as iteratively performing multiple credential-harvesting operations and lateral movements to reach predefined objectives. We explicitly consider the time-variant nature of all variables involved. We show how different countermeasures impact key variables of the proposed model, and define an intuitive metric for quantifying the attacker’s expended effort to reach a given goal. Although direct computation of a verifiably minimum value for this metric is demonstrably infeasible, we propose heuristics to achieve reasonable upper bounds. We validate our model and bound-heuristics through simulations, including assessing the impact of a deployed countermeasure.

No-Directional and Backward-Leak Uni-Directional Updatable Encryption Are Equivalent.
Updatable encryption (UE) enables the cloud server to update the previously sourced encrypted data to a new key with only an update token received from the client. Two interesting works have been proposed to clarify the relationships among various UE security notions. Jiang (ASIACRYPT 2020) proved the equivalence of every security notion in the bi-directional and uni-directional key update settings and further, the security notion in the no-directional key update setting is strictly stronger than the above two. In contrast, Nishimaki (PKC 2022) proposed a new definition of uni-directional key update that is called the backward-leak uni-directional key update, and showed the equivalence relation by Jiang does not hold in this setting.We present a detailed comparison of every security notion in the four key update settings and prove that the security in the backward-leak uni-directional key update setting is actually equivalent to that in the no-directional key update setting. Our result reduces the hard problem of constructing no-directional key update UE schemes to the construction of those with backward-leak uni-directional key updates.

Efficient Circuits for Permuting and Mapping Packed Values Across Leveled Homomorphic Ciphertexts.
Cloud services are an essential part of our digital infrastructure as organizations outsource large amounts of data storage and computations. While organizations typically keep sensitive data in encrypted form at rest, they decrypt it when performing computations, leaving the cloud provider free to observe the data. Unfortunately, access to raw data creates privacy risks. To alleviate these risks, researchers have developed secure outsourced data processing techniques. Such techniques enable cloud services that keep sensitive data encrypted, even during computations. For this purpose, fully homomorphic encryption is particularly promising, but operations on ciphertexts are computationally demanding. Therefore, modern fully homomorphic cryptosystems use packing techniques to store and process multiple values within a single ciphertext. However, a problem arises when packed data in one ciphertext does not align with another. For this reason, we propose a method to construct circuits that perform arbitrary permutations and mappings of such packed values. Unlike existing work, our method supports moving values across multiple ciphertexts, considering that the values in real-world scenarios cannot all be packed within a single ciphertext. We compare our open-source implementation against the state-of-the-art method implemented in HElib, which we adjusted to work with multiple ciphertexts. When data is spread among five or more ciphertexts, our method outperforms the existing method by more than an order of magnitude. Even when we only consider a permutation within a single ciphertext, our method still outperforms the state-of-the-art works implemented by HElib for circuits of similar depth.

Towards Practical Homomorphic Time-Lock Puzzles: Applicability and Verifiability.
Time-lock puzzle schemes allow one to encrypt messages for the future. More concretely, one can efficiently generate a time-lock puzzle for a secret/solution s, such that s remains hidden until a specified time T has elapsed, even for any parallel adversaries. However, since computation on secrets within multiple puzzles can be performed only when all of these puzzles are solved, the usage of classical time-lock puzzles is greatly limited. Homomorphic time-lock puzzle (HTLP) schemes were thus proposed to allow evaluating functions over puzzles directly without solving them.However, although efficient HTLP schemes exist, more improvements are still needed for practicability. In this paper, we improve HTLP schemes to broaden their application scenarios from the aspects of applicability and verifiability. In terms of applicability, we design the first multiplicatively HTLP scheme with the solution space over \(\mathbb {Z}_n^*\), which is more expressible than the original one, e.g., representing integers. Then, to fit HTLP into scenarios requiring verifiability that is missing in existing schemes, we propose three simple and fast protocols for both the additively HTLP scheme and our multiplicatively HTLP scheme, respectively. The first two protocols allow a puzzle solver to convince others of the correctness of the solution or the invalidity of the puzzle so that others do not need to solve the puzzle themselves. The third protocol allows a puzzle generator to prove the validity of his puzzles. It is shown that a puzzle in our scheme is only 1.25 KB, and one multiplication on puzzles takes simply 0.01 ms. Meanwhile, the overhead of each protocol is less than 0.6KB in communication and 40 ms in computation. Hence, HTLP still demonstrates excellent efficiency in both communication and computation with these versatile properties.

Kallima: A Clean-Label Framework for Textual Backdoor Attacks.
Although Deep Neural Network (DNN) has led to unprecedented progress in various natural language processing (NLP) tasks, research shows that deep models are extremely vulnerable to backdoor attacks. The existing backdoor attacks mainly inject a small number of poisoned samples into the training dataset with the labels changed to the target one. Such mislabeled samples would raise suspicion upon human inspection, potentially revealing the attack. To improve the stealthiness of textual backdoor attacks, we propose the first clean-label framework Kallima for synthesizing \(mimesis\)-style backdoor samples to develop insidious textual backdoor attacks. We modify inputs belonging to the target class with adversarial perturbations, making the model rely more on the backdoor trigger. Our framework is compatible with most existing backdoor triggers. The experimental results on three benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.



Two Types of Novel DoS Attacks Against CDNs Based on HTTP/2 Flow Control Mechanism.
Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) provide high availability and low latency for end users through their geographically distributed and high-performance edge servers. Compared to the HTTP/1.1 protocol, the HTTP/2 protocol greatly improves network transmission performance, and most CDN vendors have begun to support HTTP/2. However, in a CDN-mediated network path between a client and an origin server, most CDN vendors deploy HTTP/2 in the client-to-CDN connection while still using HTTP/1.1 for the CDN-to-origin connection. This asymmetric usage of two versions of the HTTP protocol may lead to new types of attacks.In this paper, we present two types of novel Denial of Service (DoS) attacks against CDNs: the HTTP/2 Traffic Amplification (HTA) attack and the HTTP/2 Slow Rate (HSR) attack. The HTA attack allows malicious users to exhaust the bandwidth of the origin server. The HSR attack can be used to consume all available connections of the origin server. We examined the HTA attack and the HSR attack on 10 popular CDNs to evaluate the feasibility and real-world impacts. Our experiment results show that all these CDNs are vulnerable to the HTA attack, and four of them are vulnerable to the HSR attack. In the worst-case scenario, attackers could amplify the network traffic by 403092 times, which poses a great DoS threat to CDN services. We responsibly disclosed these security vulnerabilities to the affected CDN vendors and received positive feedback from them. Some of them even rewarded us with bug bounties. At the end of this paper, we propose some mitigation countermeasures against these attacks.


EVExchange: A Relay Attack on Electric Vehicle Charging System.
To support the increasing spread of Electric Vehicles (EVs), Charging Stations (CSs) are being installed worldwide. The new generation of CSs employs the Vehicle-To-Grid (V2G) paradigm by implementing novel standards such as the ISO 15118. This standard enables high-level communication between the vehicle and the charging column, helps manage the charge smartly, and simplifies the payment phase. This novel charging paradigm, which connects the Smart Grid to external networks (e.g., EVs and CSs), has not been thoroughly examined yet. Therefore, it may lead to dangerous vulnerability surfaces and new research challenges.In this paper, we present EVExchange, the first attack to steal energy during a charging session in a V2G communication: i.e., charging the attacker’s car while letting the victim pay for it. Furthermore, if reverse charging flow is enabled, the attacker can even sell the energy available on the victim’s car! Thus, getting the economic profit of this selling, and leaving the victim with a completely discharged battery. We developed a virtual and a physical testbed in which we validate the attack and prove its effectiveness in stealing the energy. To prevent the attack, we propose a lightweight modification of the ISO 15118 protocol to include a distance bounding algorithm. Finally, we validated the countermeasure on our testbeds. Our results show that the proposed countermeasure can identify all the relay attack attempts while being transparent to the user.


Smart RPKI Validation: Avoiding Errors and Preventing Hijacks.
Resource Public Key Infrastructure (RPKI) was designed to authorize ownership of prefixes in the Internet, which routers use to filter bogus BGP announcements to prevent prefix hijacks. Although already 360K routes have valid covering Route Origin Authorizations (ROAs), RPKI is not widely validated. Erroneous ROAs are one of the obstacles towards wide filtering of bogus BGP announcements with Route Origin Validation (ROV). Erroneous ROAs conflict with BGP announcements and appear similar to hijacking announcements. Blocking such conflicting announcements can disconnect networks and hence demotivates enforcement of ROV.In this work we analyse the conflicts and develop an extension to ROV, which we call smart ROV (SROV), to automatically differentiate errors from traffic hijacks. The networks can then block only the hijacks and accept conflicting announcements due to errors. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SROV experimentally using real conflicts that we collected in the Internet, with simulations on empirically derived datasets. We also develop a global notification service based on SROV, for alerting networks of errors https://smart-validator.net/.

Cyber Network Resilience Against Self-Propagating Malware Attacks.
Self-propagating malware (SPM) has led to huge financial losses, major data breaches, and widespread service disruptions in recent years. In this paper, we explore the problem of developing cyber resilient systems capable of mitigating the spread of SPM attacks. We begin with an in-depth study of a well-known self-propagating malware, WannaCry, and present a compartmental model called SIIDR that accurately captures the behavior observed in real-world attack traces. Next, we investigate ten cyber defense techniques, including existing edge and node hardening strategies, as well as newly developed methods based on reconfiguring network communication (NodeSplit) and isolating communities. We evaluate all defense strategies in detail using six real-world communication graphs collected from a large retail network and compare their performance across a wide range of attacks and network topologies. We show that several of these defenses are able to efficiently reduce the spread of SPM attacks modeled with SIIDR. For instance, given a strong attack that infects 97% of nodes when no defense is employed, strategically securing a small number of nodes (0.08%) reduces the infection footprint in one of the networks down to 1%.


INC: In-Network Classification of Botnet Propagation at Line Rate.
The ever-increasing botnet presence has enabled attackers to compromise millions of nodes and launch a plethora of Internet-scale coordinated attacks within a very short period of time. While the challenge of identifying and patching the vulnerabilities that these botnets exploit in a timely manner has proven elusive, a more promising solution is to mitigate such exploitation attempts at core traffic transmission mediums, such as within the forwarding devices of ISPs, backbones, and other high-rate network environments. To this end, we present an In-Network Classification (INC) technique to fingerprint the spread of botnets at wire-speed within busy networks. In particular, INC employs a unique bagging classification system residing entirely within programmable switch hardware in order to classify and subsequently mitigate bot infections amid Tbps traffic rates. Additionally, INC immediately pushes the data plane features of mitigated bots to the controller to infer botnet orchestration in real-time via behavioral clustering. INC was comprehensively evaluated against several datasets and achieved state-of-the-art results while reducing the detection times of comparable techniques by several orders of magnitude. Further, we demonstrate that INC can generalize well to previously unseen botnets.

GAME: Generative-Based Adaptive Model Extraction Attack.
The outstanding performance of deep learning has prompted the rise of Machine Learning as a Service (MLaaS), which significantly reduces the difficulty for users to train and deploy models. For privacy and security considerations, most models in the MLaaS scenario only provide users with black-box access. However, previous works have shown that this defense mechanism still faces potential threats, such as model extraction attacks, which aim at stealing the function or parameters of a black-box victim model. To further study the vulnerability of publicly deployed models, we propose a novel model extraction attack named Generative-Based Adaptive Model Extraction (GAME), which augments query data adaptively in a sample limited scenario using auxiliary classifier GANs (AC-GAN). Compared with the previous work, our attack has the following advantages: adaptive data generation without original datasets, high fidelity, high accuracy, and high stability under different data distributions. According to extensive experiments, we observe that: (1) GAME poses a threat to victim models despite the model architectures and the training sets; (2) synthetic samples closed to decision boundary without deviating from the center of the target distribution can accelerate the extraction process; (3) compared to state-of-the-art work, GAME improves relative accuracy by 12% at much lower data and query costs without the reliance on domain relevance of proxy datasets.

AttacKG: Constructing Technique Knowledge Graph from Cyber Threat Intelligence Reports.
Cyber attacks are becoming more sophisticated and diverse, making attack detection increasingly challenging. To combat these attacks, security practitioners actively summarize and exchange their knowledge about attacks across organizations in the form of cyber threat intelligence (CTI) reports. However, as CTI reports written in natural language texts are not structured for automatic analysis, the report usage requires tedious manual efforts of threat intelligence recovery. Additionally, individual reports typically cover only a limited aspect of attack patterns (e.g., techniques) and thus are insufficient to provide a comprehensive view of attacks with multiple variants.In this paper, we propose AttacKG to automatically extract structured attack behavior graphs from CTI reports and identify the associated attack techniques. We then aggregate threat intelligence across reports to collect different aspects of techniques and enhance attack behavior graphs into technique knowledge graphs (TKGs).In our evaluation against real-world CTI reports from diverse intelligence sources, AttacKG effectively identifies 28,262 attack techniques with 8,393 unique Indicators of Compromises. To further verify the accuracy of AttacKG in extracting threat intelligence, we run AttacKG on 16 manually labeled CTI reports. Experimental results show that AttacKG accurately identifies attack-relevant entities, dependencies, and techniques with F1-scores of 0.887, 0.896, and 0.789, which outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches. Moreover, our TKGs directly benefit downstream security practices built atop attack techniques, e.g., advanced persistent threat detection and cyber attack reconstruction.

SeInspect: Defending Model Stealing via Heterogeneous Semantic Inspection.
Recent works developed an emerging attack, called Model Stealing (MS), to steal the functionalities of remote models, rendering the privacy of cloud-based machine learning services under threat. In this paper, we propose a new defense against MS attacks, using Semantic Inspection (called SeInspect). SeInspect mainly achieves two breakthroughs in this line of work. First, state-of-the-art MS attacks tend to craft malicious queries within a distribution close to benign ones. Such a characteristic increases the stealthiness of these attacks and makes them able to circumvent most of the existing MS defenses. In SeInspect, we introduce a semantic feature based detection method to amplify the query distribution discrepancy between malicious and benign users. Thus, SeInspect can detect stealthy MS attacks with a higher detection rate than existing defenses. Second, in our evaluation, we notice that existing defenses cause significantly increased response latency of model service due to repetfitive user-by-user inspection (e.g., increased by 7.01 times for PRADA, EuroS &P 2019). To mitigate the problem, we propose to analyze semantic features with a two-layer defense mechanism. The first layer can achieve a “quickshot” on users in batches and pick out all potentially malicious users. Then, the second layer identifies the attacker in a user-by-user manner. In our evaluation, we experiment with SeInspect on eight typical MS attacks. The result shows that SeInspect can detect two more attacks than prior works while reducing latency by at least \(54.00\%\).

We Can Hear Your PIN Drop: An Acoustic Side-Channel Attack on ATM PIN Pads.
Personal Identification Numbers (PINs) are the most common user authentication method for in-person banking transactions at ATMs. The US Federal Reserve reported that, in 2018, PINs secured 31.4 billion transactions in the US, with an overall worth of US$ 1.19 trillion.One well-known attack type involves the use of cameras to spy on the ATM PIN pad during PIN entry. Countermeasures include covering the PIN pad with a shield or with the other hand while typing. Although this protects PINs from visual attacks, acoustic emanations from the PIN pad itself open the door for another attack type. In this paper, we show the feasibility of an acoustic side-channel attack (called \(\mathcal PinDrop\)) to reconstruct PINs by profiling acoustic signatures of individual keys of a PIN pad. We demonstrate the practicality of \(\mathcal PinDrop\) via two sets of data collection experiments involving two commercially available metal PIN pad models and 58 participants who entered a total of 5,800 5-digit PINs. We simulated two realistic attack scenarios: (1) a microphone placed near the ATM (0.3 m away) and (2) a real-time attacker (with a microphone) standing in the queue at a common courtesy distance of 2 m. In the former case, we show that \(\mathcal PinDrop\) recovers 96% of 4-digit, and up to 94% of 5-digits, PINs. Whereas, at 2 m away, it recovers up to 57% of 4-digit, and up to 39% of 5-digit PINs in three attempts. We believe that these results are both significant and worrisome.

VAL: Volume and Access Pattern Leakage-Abuse Attack with Leaked Documents.
Searchable Encryption schemes provide secure search over encrypted databases while allowing admitted information leakages. Generally, the leakages can be categorized into access and volume pattern. In most existing SE schemes, these leakages are caused by practical designs but are considered an acceptable price to achieve high search efficiency. Recent attacks have shown that such leakages could be easily exploited to retrieve the underlying keywords for search queries. Under the umbrella of attacking SE, we design a new Volume and Access Pattern Leakage-Abuse Attack (VAL-Attack) that improves the matching technique of LEAP (CCS ’21) and exploits both the access and volume patterns. Our proposed attack only leverages leaked documents and the keywords present in those documents as auxiliary knowledge and can effectively retrieve document and keyword matches from leaked data. Furthermore, the recovery performs without false positives. We further compare VAL-Attack with two recent well-defined attacks on several real-world datasets to highlight the effectiveness of our attack and present the performance under popular countermeasures.


Light the Signal: Optimization of Signal Leakage Attacks Against LWE-Based Key Exchange.
Key exchange protocols from the learning with errors (LWE) problem share many similarities with the Diffie-Hellman-Merkle (DHM) protocol, which plays a central role in securing our Internet. Therefore, there has been a long time effort in designing authenticated key exchange directly from LWE to mirror the advantages of DHM-based protocols. In this paper, we revisit signal leakage attacks and show that the severity of these attacks against LWE-based (authenticated) key exchange is still underestimated.In particular, by converting the problem of launching a signal leakage attack into a coding problem, we can significantly reduce the needed number of queries to reveal the secret key. Specifically, for DXL-KE we reduce the queries from 1,266 to only 29, while for DBS-KE, we need only 748 queries, a great improvement over the previous 1,074,434 queries. Moreover, our new view of signals as binary codes enables recognizing vulnerable schemes more easily. As such we completely recover the secret key of a password-based authenticated key exchange scheme by Dabra et al. with only 757 queries and partially reveal the secret used in a two-factor authentication by Wang et al. with only one query. The experimental evaluation supports our theoretical analysis and demonstrates the efficiency and effectiveness of our attacks. Our results caution against underestimating the power of signal leakage attacks as they are applicable even in settings with a very restricted number of interactions between adversary and victim.


BLEWhisperer: Exploiting BLE Advertisements for Data Exfiltration.
Bluetooth technology has enabled short-range wireless communication for billions of devices. Bluetooth Low-Energy (BLE) variant aims at improving power consumption on battery-constrained devices. BLE-enabled devices broadcast information (e.g., as beacons) to nearby devices via advertisements. Unfortunately, such functionality can become a double-edged sword at the hands of attackers.In this paper, we primarily show how an attacker can exploit BLE advertisements to exfiltrate information from BLE-enable devices. In particular, our attack establishes a communication medium between two devices without requiring any prior authentication or pairing. We develop a proof-of-concept attack framework on the Android ecosystem and assess its performance via a thorough set of experiments. Our results indicate that such an exfiltration attack is indeed possible though with a limited data rate. Nevertheless, we also demonstrate potential use cases and enhancements to our attack that can further its severeness. Finally, we discuss possible countermeasures to prevent such an attack.

A Machine Learning Approach to Detect Differential Treatment of Anonymous Users.
Anonymous Internet use is essential to safeguard against mass surveillance and to protect privacy online. Tor Browser and the Tor anonymity network provide an effective and convenient way to browse the Internet anonymously. However, many websites make browsing inconvenient for anonymous users either by blocking access entirely, by blocking access to some functionality, or by using CAPTCHAs to make access more difficult. Prior work has relied on heuristics to study the extent to which anonymous users are treated differently. However, these heuristics either underestimated blocking or required extensive manual labeling. To address these shortcomings, here we propose a machine learning approach to detect when anonymous users are treated differently. We train binary and multi-class classifiers based on six feature sets and find that they perform very well on our test data (F1 scores 100%–94% for binary and 97%–84% for multi-class classifiers). Applying these classifiers to data collected from browsing 1,000 sites, including visits to subsites and executing search functionality, via 100 Tor exit nodes we find that 16.7% of landing pages inconvenience anonymous users, compared with 15.2% of subsites and 3.8% of search result pages. In particular, we find that websites hosted by Akamai, EdgeCast, and Cloudflare have significantly higher block rates than average, and that blocking of search results is dominated by Google which displays a block page or CAPTCHA for 39.8% of search result pages.

Utility-Preserving Biometric Information Anonymization.
The use of biometrics such as fingerprints, voices, and images are becoming increasingly more ubiquitous through people’s daily lives, in applications ranging from authentication, identification, to much more sophisticated analytics, thanks to the recent rapid advances in both the sensing hardware technologies and machine learning techniques. While providing improved user experiences and better business insights, the use of biometrics has raised serious privacy concerns, due to their intrinsic sensitive nature and the accompanying high risk of leaking personally identifiable and private information.In this paper, we propose a novel utility-preserving biometric anonymization framework, which provides a method to anonymize a biometric dataset without introducing artificial or external noise, with a process that retains features relevant for downstream machine learning-based analyses to extract interesting attributes that are valuable to relevant services, businesses, and research organizations. We carried out a thorough experimental evaluation using publicly available visual and vocal datasets. Results show that our proposed framework can achieve a high level of anonymization, while at the same time retain underlying data utility such that subsequent analyses on the anonymized biometric data could still be carried out to yield satisfactory accuracy.

Anonymous Traceback for End-to-End Encryption.
As secure messaging services become ubiquitous, the need for moderation tools that can function within these systems without defeating their purpose becomes more and more pressing. There are several solutions to deal with moderation on a local level, handling harassment and personal-scale issues, but handling wider-scale issues like disinformation campaigns narrows the field; traceback systems are designed for this, but most are incompatible with anonymity.In this paper, we present Anonymous Traceback, a traceback system capable of functioning within anonymous secure messaging systems. We carefully model security properties, provide two provably secure and simple constructions, with the most practical construction able to preserve anonymity for all but the original source of a reported abusive message. Our implementation shows integration to messaging systems such as Signal is feasible, with client-side overhead smaller than Signals’ sealed sender system, and low overhead overall.

Public Cloud Data Auditing Revisited: Removing the Tradeoff Between Proof Size and Storage Cost.
Public cloud data auditing allows any third party to check the integrity of data stored on untrusted cloud servers without retrieving the data. The challenge is how to audit the proof of storage with efficient communications. In ACM CCS 2007, Ateniese et al. described the first practical public cloud data auditing scheme based on RSA, in which the proof of storage consists of one RSA element and one hash value and the storage cost for generating the proof can be as short as \(1\%\) of the stored file. Soon after, in Asiacrypt 2008, Shacham and Waters gave another public cloud data auditing scheme based on bilinear pairing, in which the generated proof of storage can be as short as 320 bits for 80-bit security (71\(\%\) less compared to Ateniese et al.’s scheme). However, Shacham and Waters’ scheme must trade off the storage cost, where the storage overhead for generating the proof of storage must be \(100\%\) of the stored file. Surprisingly, until today, the tradeoff between the proof size (namely proof of storage) and the storage cost (namely storage overhead) in cloud data auditing remains an open problem.In this paper, we introduce a completely new public cloud data auditing mechanism. The proof of storage is not computed from block tags directly, but from evolution tags that are still unforgeable and evolved from bunch tags. We propose a concrete public cloud data auditing scheme based on this mechanism, in which the proof size is 240 bits for 80-bit security (25\(\%\) less compared to Shacham and Waters’ scheme) and the storage cost can be as efficient as Ateniese et al.’s scheme. The core of our technique is the feasibility of tag aggregations within this new mechanism. Our scheme is provably secure in the random oracle model.

DEKS: A Secure Cloud-Based Searchable Service Can Make Attackers Pay.
Many practical secure systems have been designed to prevent real-world attacks via maximizing the attacking cost so as to reduce attack intentions. Inspired by this philosophy, we propose a new concept named delay encryption with keyword search (DEKS) to resist the notorious keyword guessing attack (KGA), in the context of secure cloud-based searchable services. Avoiding the use of complex (and unreasonable) assumptions, as compared to existing works, DEKS optionally leverages a catalyst that enables one (e.g., a valid data user) to easily execute encryption; without the catalyst, any unauthenticated system insiders and outsiders take severe time consumption on encryption. By this, DEKS can overwhelm a KGA attacker in the encryption stage before it obtains any advantage. We leverage the repeated squaring function, which is the core building block of our design, to construct the first DEKS instance. The experimental results show that DEKS is practical in thwarting KGA for both small and large-scale datasets. For example, in the Wikipedia, a KGA attacker averagely takes 7.23 years to break DEKS when the delay parameter \(T=2^{24}\). The parameter T can be flexibly adjusted based on practical needs, and theoretically, its upper bound is infinite.

Lighter is Better: A Lighter Multi-client Verifiable Outsourced Computation with Hybrid Homomorphic Encryption.
Gordon et al. (TCC 2015) systematically studied the security of Multi-client Verifiable Computation (MVC), in which a set of computationally-weak clients outsource the computation of a general function f over their private inputs to an untrusted server. They introduced the universally composable (UC) security of MVC and proposed a scheme achieving UC-security, where the protocol remains secure after arbitrarily composed with other UC-secure instances. However, the clients in their scheme have to undertake the heavy computation overhead caused by fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) and further, the plaintext size is linear to the function input size.In this work, we propose a more efficient UC-secure multi-client privacy-preserving verifiable computation protocol, called MVOC, that sharply reduces amortized overheads for clients, in both semi-honest and malicious settings. In particular, our protocol achieves stronger outsourcability by outsourcing more computation to the server, so that it may be more friendly to those lightweight clients. More specifically, we revisit the definition of garbling scheme, and propose a novel garbled circuit protocol whose circuit randomness is non-interactively provided by multiple parties. We also realize the idea of hybrid homomorphic encryption, which makes the FHE plaintext size independent of the input size. We present the detailed proof and analyze the theoretical complexity of MVOC. We further implement our protocol and evaluate the performance, and the results show that, after adopting our new techniques, the computation and communication overheads during input phase can be decreased by 55.15%–68.05% and 62.55%–75% respectively.


Verifying the Quality of Outsourced Training on Clouds.
Deep learning training is often outsourced to clouds due to its high computation overhead. However, clouds may not perform model training correctly due to the potential violations on Service Level Agreement (SLA) and attacks, incurring low quality of outsourced training. It is challenging for customers to understand the quality of outsourced training on clouds. They cannot measure the quality by simply testing the trained models because the testing performance is impacted by various factors, e.g., the quality of training and testing data. In order to address these issues, in this paper, we propose a novel framework that allows customers to verify the quality of outsourced training without modifying the processes of model training. Particularly, our framework achieves black-box verification by utilizing an extra training task that can be learned by the model only after the model converges on the original training task. We construct well-designed extra training tasks according to the original tasks, and develop a training quality verification method to measure the model performance on the extra task with a hypothesis testing-based threshold. The experiment results show that the models passing the quality verification achieve at least 96% of their best performance with negligible accuracy loss, i.e., less than 0.25%.


SecQuant: Quantifying Container System Call Exposure.
Despite their maturity and popularity, security remains a critical concern in container adoption. To address this concern, secure container runtimes have emerged, offering superior guest isolation, as well as host protection, via system call policing through the surrogate kernel layer. Whether or not an adversary can bypass this protection depends on the effectiveness of the system call policy being enforced by the container runtime. In this work, we propose a novel method to quantify this container system call exposure. Our technique combines the analysis of a large number of exploit codes with comprehensive experiments designed to uncover the syscall pass-through behaviors of container runtimes. Our exploit code analysis uses information retrieval techniques to rank system calls by their risk weights. Our study shows that secure container runtimes are about 4.2 to 7.5 times more secure than others, using our novel quantification metric. We additionally uncover changing security trends across a 4.5 year version history of the container runtimes.

Robust and Scalable Process Isolation Against Spectre in the Cloud.
In the quest for efficiency and performance, edge-computing providers replace process isolation with sandboxes, to support a high number of tenants per machine. While secure against software vulnerabilities, microarchitectural attacks can bypass these sandboxes.In this paper, we present a Spectre attack leaking secrets from co-located tenants in edge computing. Our remote Spectre attack, using amplification techniques and a remote timing server, leaks \({2}\,\mathrm {bit/min}\). This motivates our main contribution, DyPrIs, a scalable process-isolation mechanism that only isolates suspicious worker scripts following a lightweight detection mechanism. In the worst case, DyPrIs boils down to process isolation. Our proof-of-concept implementation augments real-world cloud infrastructure used in production at large scale, Cloudflare Workers. With a false-positive rate of only \({0.61}\,{\%}\), we demonstrate that DyPrIs outperforms strict process isolation while statistically maintaining its security guarantees, fully mitigating cross-tenant Spectre attacks.


Administration of Machine Learning Based Access Control.
When the access control state of a system is complex, Machine learning (ML)-based access control decision engines have demonstrated advantages of accuracy and generalizability. This field is emerging with multiple efforts where an ML model is trained based on either existing access control state or historic access logs; the trained model then makes access control decisions. This paper explores ML-based access control’s administration problem, focusing on capturing changes in the access control state. We investigate this problem in a simulated system with Random Forest (RF) method from a symbolic ML class and the ResNet method from a non-symbolic one. Both classes have their respective advantages and disadvantages for issues such as insufficient learning of new changes and forgetting existing access information while updating the ML model. Our experimental results show that the non-symbolic approaches perform better than the symbolic ones while adjusting for continual (or incremental) changes in the access control state
.

Real-Time Policy Enforcement with Metric First-Order Temporal Logic.
Correctness and regulatory compliance of today’s software systems are crucial for our safety and security. This can be achieved with policy enforcement: the process of monitoring and possibly modifying system behavior to satisfy a given policy. The enforcer’s capabilities determine which policies are enforceable.We study the enforceability of policies specified in metric first-order temporal logic (MFOTL) with enforcers that can cause and suppress different system actions in real time. We consider an expressive safety fragment of MFOTL and show that a policy from that fragment is enforceable if and only if it is equivalent to a policy in a simpler, syntactically defined MFOTL fragment. We then propose an enforcement algorithm for all monitorable policies from the latter fragment, and show that our EnfPoly enforcer outperforms state-of-the-art tools.

A Tale of Four Gates - Privilege Escalation and Permission Bypasses on Android Through App Components.

Android apps interact and exchange data with other apps through so-called app components. Previous research has shown that app components can cause application-level vulnerabilities, for example leading to data leakage across apps. Alternatively, apps can (intentionally or accidentally) expose their permissions (e.g. for camera and microphone) to other apps that lack these privileges. This causes a confused deputy situation, where a less privileged app exposes its app components, which use these permissions, to the victim app. While previous research mainly focused on these issues, less attention has been paid to how app components can affect the security and privacy guarantees of Android OS. In this paper, we demonstrate two according vulnerabilities, affecting recent Android versions. First, we show how app components can be used to leak data from and, in some cases, take full control of other Android user profiles, bypassing the dedicated lock screen. We demonstrate the impact of this vulnerability on major Android vendors (Samsung, Huawei, Google and Xiaomi). Secondly, we found that app components can be abused by spyware to access sensors like the camera and the microphone in the background up to Android 10, bypassing mitigations specifically designed to prevent this behaviour. Using a two-app setup, we find that app components can be invoked stealthily to e.g. periodically take pictures and audio recordings in the background. Finally, we present Four Gates Inspector, our open-source static analysis tool to systematically detect such issues for a large number of apps with complex codebases. Our tool successfully identified exposed components issues in 34 out 5,783 apps with average analysis runtime of 4.3 s per app and, detected both known malware samples and unknown samples downloaded from the F-Droid repository. We responsibly disclosed all vulnerabilities presented in this paper to the affected vendors, leading to several CVE records and a currently unresolved high-severity issue in Android 10 and earlier.

Sequential Digital Signatures for Cryptographic Software-Update Authentication.
Consider a computer user who needs to update a piece of software installed on their computing device. To do so securely, a commonly accepted ad-hoc method stipulates that the old software version first retrieves the update information from the vendor’s public repository, then checks that a cryptographic signature embedded into it verifies with the vendor’s public key, and finally replaces itself with the new version. This updating method seems to be robust and lightweight, and to reliably ensure that no malicious third party (e.g., a distribution mirror) can inject harmful code into the update process. Unfortunately, recent prominent news reports (SolarWinds, Stuxnet, TikTok, Zoom, ...) suggest that nation state adversaries are broadening their efforts related to attacking software supply chains. This calls for a critical re-evaluation of the described signature based updating method with respect to the real-world security it provides against particularly powerful adversaries.We approach the setting by formalizing a cryptographic primitive that addresses specifically the secure software updating problem. We define strong, rigorous security models that capture forward security (stealing a vendor’s key today doesn’t allow modifying yesterday’s software version) as well as a form of self-enforcement that helps protecting vendors against coercion attacks in which they are forced, e.g. by nation state actors, to misuse or disclose their keys. We note that the common signature based software authentication method described above meets neither the one nor the other goal, and thus represents a suboptimal solution. Hence, after formalizing the syntax and security of the new primitive, we propose novel, efficient, and provably secure constructions.


On Committing Authenticated-Encryption.
We provide a strong definition for committing authenticated-encryption (cAE), as well as a framework that encompasses earlier and weaker definitions. The framework attends not only to what is committed but also the extent to which the adversary knows or controls keys. We slot into our framework strengthened cAE-attacks on GCM and OCB. Our main result is a simple and efficient construction, CTX, that makes a nonce-based AE (nAE) scheme committing. The transformed scheme achieves the strongest security notion in our framework. Just the same, the added computational cost (on top of the nAE scheme’s cost) is a single hash over a short string, a cost independent of the plaintext’s length. And there is no increase in ciphertext length compared to the base nAE scheme. That such a thing is possible, let alone easy, upends the (incorrect) intuition that you can’t commit to a plaintext or ciphertext without hashing one or the other. And it motivates a simple and practical tweak to AE-schemes to make them committing.


Quantum-Resistant Password-Based Threshold Single-Sign-On Authentication with Updatable Server Private Key.
Passwords are the most prevalent authentication mechanism, and proliferate on nearly every new web service. As users are overloaded with the tasks of managing dozens even hundreds of passwords, accordingly password-based single-sign-on (SSO) schemes have been proposed. In password-based SSO schemes, the authentication server needs to maintain a sensitive password file, which is an attractive target for compromise and poses a single point of failure. Hence, the notion of password-based threshold authentication (PTA) system has been proposed. However, a static PTA system is threatened by perpetual leakage (e.g., the adversary perpetually compromises servers). In addition, most of the existing PTA schemes are built on the intractability of conventional hard problems, and become insecure in the quantum era.In this work, we first propose a threshold oblivious pseudorandom function (TOPRF) to harden the password so that PTA schemes can resist offline password guessing attacks. Then, we employ the threshold homomorphic aggregate signature (THAS) over lattices to construct the first quantum-resistant password-based threshold single-sign-on authentication scheme with the updatable server private key. Our scheme resolves various issues arising from user corruption and server compromise, and it is formally proved secure against quantum adversaries. Comparison results show that our scheme is superior to its counterparts.

The Revenge of Password Crackers: Automated Training of Password Cracking Tools.
Passwords are stored in the form of salted one-way hashes so that attacks on servers cannot leak them in the clear. However, humans tend to select passwords that are easy to remember, and a motivated attacker may attempt to hash quite large sets of easy passwords until a match is found with the target hash. Password cracking tools such as hashcat and john the ripper do this job very efficiently, using different forms of attacks that, for example, try passwords with a certain syntactic structure or passwords taken from a dictionary and mangled through appropriate rules. Recent work on password guessing has shown that machine learning can, in principle, outperform existing cracking tools in terms of success rate, by generating sophisticated password models. In this paper, we give password cracking tools a second chance, by exploring automated training techniques that aim to effectively improve the success rate. To achieve this ambitious goal, we carry out a systematic and in-depth analysis of various cracking strategies, and we propose a new combination of techniques that we train and test on a dataset of more than 700M real passwords. Our results show that, with this new approach, we can almost double the success rate, returning the primacy to password cracking tools. The techniques are general, repeatable and publicly available up to ethical constraints, providing a new benchmark for future research on password guessing.

Fuzzy Authenticated Key Exchange with Tight Security.
Fuzzy authenticated key exchange (FAKE) enables two parties to agree on a shared key with the help of their fuzzy sources, like biometric features [3, 9], physical unclonable functions (PUFs) [16], etc. In FAKE, each user will generate public strings from its own fuzzy source, and register public strings to the system. In the interactive protocol of FAKE, the user will again employ their own fuzzy sources to accomplish key agreement and achieve authenticity and privacy for the agreed session keys. The advantage of FAKE is that users do not have to store them in the devices, hence do not worry about key leakage due to bad key management in devices.In this paper, We propose a generic construction of FAKE from three building blocks including secure sketch (SS), key encapsulation scheme (KEM) and a digital signature (SIG). We also define authenticity for users and pseudo-randomness for session keys to formalize the security of FAKE in the multi-user multi-challenge setting. We prove the security of our FAKE construction with tight security reductions to the building blocks in the random oracle model. Given the available choices for SS, tightly secure KEM and tightly secure SIG schemes, we obtain a bunch of FAKE schemes with tight security in the multi-user multi-challenge setting.

Continuous Authentication in Secure Messaging.
Secure messaging schemes such as the Signal protocol rely on out-of-band channels to verify the authenticity of long-running communication. Such out-of-band checks however are only rarely actually performed by users in practice.In this paper, we propose a new method for performing continuous authentication during a secure messaging session, without the need for an out-of-band channel. Leveraging the users’ long-term secrets, our Authentication Steps extension guarantees authenticity as long as long-term secrets are not compromised, strengthening Signal’s post-compromise security. Our mechanism further allows to detect a potential compromise of long-term secrets after the fact via an out-of-band channel.Our protocol comes with a novel, formal security definition capturing continuous authentication, a general construction for Signal-like protocols, and a security proof for the proposed instantiation. We further provide a prototype implementation which seamlessly integrates on top of the official Signal Java library, together with bandwidth and storage overhead benchmarks.


Half-Aggregation of Schnorr Signatures with Tight Reductions.
An aggregate signature (AS) scheme allows an unspecified aggregator to compress many signatures into a short aggregation. AS schemes can save storage costs and accelerate verification. They are desirable for applications where many signatures need to be stored, transferred, or verified together, including blockchain systems, sensor networks, certificate chains, network routing, etc. However, constructing AS schemes based on general groups, only requiring the hardness of the discrete logarithm problem, is quite tricky and has been a long-standing research question. Recently, Chalkias et al. [6] proposed a half-aggregate scheme for Schnorr signatures. We observe the scheme lacks a tight security proof and does not well support incremental aggregation, i.e., adding more signatures into a pre-existing aggregation.This work’s contributions are threefold. We first give a tight security proof for the scheme in [6] in the ROM and the algebraic group model (AGM). Second, we provide a new half-aggregate scheme for Schnorr signatures that perfectly supports incremental aggregation, whose security also tightly reduces to Schnorr’s security in the AGM+ROM. Third, we present a Schnorr-based sequential aggregate signature (SAS) scheme that is tightly secure as Schnorr signature scheme in the ROM (without the AGM). Our work may pave the way for applying Schnorr aggregation in real-world cryptographic applications.


Ring Signatures with User-Controlled Linkability.

Anonymous authentication primitives, e.g., group or ring signatures, allow one to realize privacy-preserving data collection applications, as they strike a balance between authenticity of data being collected and privacy of data providers. At PKC 2021, Diaz and Lehmann defined group signatures with User-Controlled Linkability (UCL) and provided an instantiation based on BBS+ signatures. In a nutshell, a signer of a UCL group signature scheme can link any of her signatures: linking evidence can be produced at signature time, or after signatures have been output, by providing an explicit linking proof.In this paper, we introduce Ring Signatures with User-Controlled Linkability (RS-UCL). Compared to group signatures with user-controlled linkability, RS-UCL require no group manager and can be instantiated in a completely decentralized manner. We also introduce a variation, User Controlled and Autonomous Linkability (RS-UCAL), which gives the user full control of the linkability of their signatures.We provide a formal model for both RS-UCL and RS-UCAL and introduce a compiler that can upgrade any ring signature scheme to RS-UCAL. The compiler leverages a new primitive we call Anonymous Key Randomizable Signatures (AKRS)—a signature scheme where the verification key can be randomized—that can be of independent interest. We also provide different instantiations of AKRS based on Schnorr signatures and on lattices. Finally, we show that an AKRS scheme can additionally be used to construct an RS-UCL scheme.

DualDory: Logarithmic-Verifier Linkable Ring Signatures Through Preprocessing.
A linkable ring signature allows a user to sign anonymously on behalf of a group while ensuring that multiple signatures from the same user are detected. Applications such as privacy-preserving e-voting and e-cash can leverage linkable ring signatures to significantly improve privacy and anonymity guarantees. To scale to systems involving large numbers of users, short signatures with fast verification are a must. Concretely efficient ring signatures currently rely on a trusted authority maintaining a master secret, or follow an accumulator-based approach that requires a trusted setup.In this work, we construct the first linkable ring signature with both logarithmic signature size and verification that does not require any trusted mechanism. Our scheme, which relies on discrete-log type assumptions and bilinear maps, improves upon a recent concise ring signature called DualRing by integrating improved preprocessing arguments to reduce the verification time from linear to logarithmic in the size of the ring. Our ring signature allows signatures to be linked based on what message is signed, ranging from linking signatures on any message to only signatures on the same message.We provide benchmarks for our scheme and prove its security under standard assumptions. The proposed linkable ring signature is particularly relevant to use cases that require privacy-preserving enforcement of threshold policies in a fully decentralized context, and e-voting.


Efficient Unique Ring Signatures from Lattices.
Unique ring signatures (URS) were introduced by Franklin and Zhang (FC 2012) as a unification of linkable and traceable ring signatures. In URS, each member within a ring can only produce, on behalf of the ring, at most one signature for a message.Applications of URS potentially are e–voting systems and e–token systems. In blockchain technology, URS have been implemented for mixing contract. However, existing URS schemes are based on the Discrete Logarithm Problem, which is insecure in the post-quantum setting.In this paper, we design a new lattice-based URS scheme where the signature size is logarithmic in number of ring members. The proposed URS exploits a Merkle tree-based accumulator as building block in the lattice setting. Our scheme is secure under the Short Integer Solution and Learning With Rounding assumptions in the random oracle model.


Verifiable Timed Linkable Ring Signatures for Scalable Payments for Monero.
Decentralized cryptocurrencies still suffer from three interrelated weaknesses: Low transaction rates, high transaction fees, and long confirmation times. Payment Channels promise to be a solution to these issues, and many constructions for cryptocurrencies, such as Bitcoin and Ethereuem, are known. Somewhat surprisingly, no solution is known for Monero, the largest privacy-preserving cryptocurrency, without requiring system-wide changes like a hard-fork of its blockchain like prior solutions.In this work, we close this gap for Monero by presenting the first provably secure payment channel protocol that is fully compatible with Monero’s transaction scheme. Notably, the payment channel related transactions are identical to standard transactions in Monero, therefore not hampering the coins’ fungibility. With standard techniques, our payment channels can be extended to support atomic swap of tokens in Monero with tokens of several other major currencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple, etc., in a fungible and privacy-preserving manner.Our main technical contribution is a new cryptographic tool called verifiable timed linkable ring signatures (VTLRS), where linkable ring signatures can be hidden for a pre-determined amount of time in a verifiable way. We present a practically efficient construction of VTLRS which is fully compatible with the transaction scheme of Monero, and allows for users to make timed payments to the future which might be of independent interest to develop other applications on Monero.Our implementation results show that even with high network latency and with a single CPU core, two regular users can perform up to 93500 payments over 2 min (the block production rate of Monero). This is approximately five orders of magnitude improvement over the current payment rate of Monero.

Deterministic Wallets for Adaptor Signatures.
Adaptor signatures are a new cryptographic primitive that binds the authentication of a message to the revelation of a secret value. In recent years, this primitive has gained increasing popularity both in academia and practice due to its versatile use-cases in different Blockchain applications such as atomic swaps and payment channels. The security of these applications, however, crucially relies on users storing and maintaining the secret values used by adaptor signatures in a secure way. For standard digital signature schemes, cryptographic wallets have been introduced to guarantee secure storage of keys and execution of the signing procedure. However, no prior work has considered cryptographic wallets for adaptor signatures.In this work, we introduce the notion of adaptor wallets. Adaptor wallets allow parties to securely use and maintain adaptor signatures in the Blockchain setting. Our adaptor wallets are both deterministic and operate in the hot/cold paradigm, which was first formalized by Das et al.  (CCS 2019) for standard signature schemes. We introduce a new cryptographic primitive called adaptor signatures with rerandomizable keys, and use it to generically construct adaptor wallets. We further show how to instantiate adaptor signatures with rerandomizable keys from the ECDSA signature scheme and discuss that they can likely be built for Schnorr and Katz-Wang schemes as well. Finally, we discuss the limitations of the existing ECDSA- and Schnorr-based adaptor signatures w.r.t.  deterministic wallets in the hot/cold setting and prove that it is impossible to overcome these drawbacks given the current state-of-the-art design of adaptor signatures.

Puncturable Signature: A Generic Construction and Instantiations.
Puncturable signature (PS), proposed by Bellare, Stepanovs and Waters at EUROCRYPT 2016, is a special kind of digital signature that supports a fine-grained revocation of signing capacity by updating the secret key with selective messages. Puncturable signature has many usages like asynchronous transaction data signing services and proof-of-stake blockchain protocols. Meanwhile, it is an essential building block in constructing disappearing signatures in the bounded storage model. In this paper, we propose the first generic construction of puncturable signature from identity-based signature by treating identities as prefixes. With the help of our generic framework, we present different puncturable signature instantiations over lattices, bilinear maps, and multivariate public key cryptography (MPKC). Specifically, the lattice-based instantiation is based on the short integer solution (SIS) assumption and is proven secure in the random oracle model. Besides, the pairing-based instantiation is based on the computational Diffie-Hellman (CDH) assumption and is proven secure in the standard model. In addition, we show that the instantiation over MPKC is secure under current attacks.

fASLR: Function-Based ASLR for Resource-Constrained IoT Systems.
The address space layout randomization (ASLR) has been widely deployed on modern operating systems against code reuse attacks (CRAs) such as return-oriented programming (ROP) and return-to-libc. However, porting ASLR to resource-constrained IoT devices is a great challenge due to the limited memory space. We propose a function-based ASLR scheme (fASLR) for IoT runtime security utilizing the ARM TrustZone-M technique and the memory protection unit (MPU). fASLR loads a function from the flash and randomizes its entry address in a randomization region in RAM when the function is called. We design novel mechanisms on cleaning up finished functions from the RAM and memory addressing to deal with the complexity of function relocation and randomization. Compared with related work, a prominent advantage of fASLR is that fASLR can run an application even if the application code cannot be completely loaded into RAM for execution. We test fASLR with 21 applications. fASLR achieves high randomization entropy and incurs runtime overhead of less than 10%.

An Infection-Identifying and Self-Evolving System for IoT Early Defense from Multi-Step Attacks.
Internet-of-Things (IoT) cyber threats such as jackware [14] and cryptomining [33] show that insecure IoT devices can be exploited by attackers with different goals. As many such attacks are multi-steps, early detection is critical. Early detection enables early attack containment and response, and prevention of malware propagation. However, it is challenging to detect early-phase attacks with both high precision and high recall as attackers typically attempt to evade the detection systems with stealthy or zero-day attacks. To enhance the security of IoT devices, we propose IoTEDef, a deep learning-based system able to identify the infection events and evolve with the identified infections. IoTEDef understands multi-step attacks based on cyber kill chains and maintains detectors for each step. When it detects anomalies related to a later stage of the kill chain, IoTEDef backtracks the log of events and analyzes these events to identify infection events. Then, IoTEDef updates its infection detector with the identified events. IoTEDef can be used for threat hunting as well as the generation of indicators of compromise and attacks. To show its feasibility, we implement a prototype of the system and evaluate it against the Mirai botnet campaign [2] and the multi-step attack that exploits the Log4j vulnerability [36] to infect the IoT devices. Our results show that the F1-score of our evolved infection detector in IoTEDef, instantiated with long short-term memory (LSTM) and the attention mechanism, increases from 0.31 to 0.87 . We also show that existing attention-based NIDSes can benefit from our approach.

IoTEnsemble: Detection of Botnet Attacks on Internet of Things.
As the Internet of Things (IoT) plays an increasingly important role in real life, the concern about IoT malware and botnet attacks is considerably growing. Meanwhile, with new techniques such as edge computing and artificial intelligence applied to IoT networks, these devices nowadays become more functional than ever before, which challenges many existing network anomaly detection systems due to the lack of generalization ability to profile diverse activities.To address it, this paper proposes IoTEnsemble, an ensemble network anomaly detection framework. We propose a tree-based activity clustering method that aggregates network flows dedicated to the same activity so that their traffic patterns remain identical. Based on the clustering result, we implement an ensemble model in which each submodel only needs to profile a specific activity, which highly reduces the burden of a single model’s generalization ability. For evaluation, we build a 57.1 GB IoT dataset collected in 9 months composed of comprehensive normal and malicious traffic. Our evaluation proves that IoTEnsemble possesses a state-of-the-art detection performance on various IoT botnet malware and attack traffic, exhibiting a significantly better result than other baselines in a more intelligent and functional IoT network.

IoTPrivComp: A Measurement Study of Privacy Compliance in IoT Apps.
The growth of IoT apps poses increasing concerns about sensitive data leaks. While privacy policies are required to describe how IoT apps use private user data (i.e., data practice), problems such as missing, inaccurate, and inconsistent policies have been repeatedly reported. Therefore, it is important to assess the actual data practice in IoT apps and identify the potential gaps between the actual and declared data usage. In this work, we conducted a measurement study using our framework called IoTPrivComp, which applies an automated analysis of IoT apps’ code and privacy policies to identify compliance gaps. We collected 1,489 IoT apps with English privacy policies from the Play Store. IoTPrivComp found 532 apps with sensitive external data flows, among which 408 (76.7%) apps had undisclosed data leaks. Moreover, 63.4% of the data flows that involved health and wellness data was inconsistent with the practices disclosed in the apps’ privacy policies.

No-Label User-Level Membership Inference for ASR Model Auditing.
With the advancement of speech recognition techniques, AI-powered voice assistants become ubiquitous. However, it also increases privacy concerns regarding users’ voice recordings. User-level membership inference detects whether a service provider misused users’ audio to build its Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) model without users’ consent. Previous research assumes the model’s outputs, including its label (i.e., transcription) and confidence score, are available for security auditing. However, the model’s outputs are unavailable in many real-world cases, i.e., no-label black-box scenarios, which is a big challenge. We propose a substitute model analysis to transfer the knowledge of the service system to that of its built-in ASR model’s behavior with semantic analysis techniques. Based on this analysis, our auditor can determine the user-level membership with high accuracy (\(\sim \)80%) by utilizing a shadow system technique and a gap inference method. The gap inference-based auditor is generic and independent of ASR models.

A Toolbox for Verifiable Tally-Hiding E-Voting Systems.
In most verifiable electronic voting schemes, one key step is the tally phase, where the election result is computed from the encrypted ballots. A generic technique consists in first applying (verifiable) mixnets to the ballots and then revealing all the votes in the clear. This however discloses much more information than the result of the election itself (that is, the winners, plus possibly some information required by law) and may offer the possibility to coerce voters.In this paper, we present a collection of building blocks for designing tally-hiding schemes based on multi-party computations. From these building blocks, we design a fully tally-hiding scheme for Condorcet elections. Our implementation shows that the approach is practical, at least for medium-size elections. Similarly, we provide the first tally-hiding schemes with no leakage for three important counting functions: D’Hondt, STV, and Majority Judgment. We prove that they can be used to design a private and verifiable voting scheme. We also unveil unknown flaws or leakage in some previously proposed tally-hiding schemes.

How to Verifiably Encrypt Many Bits for an Election?
The verifiable encryption of bits is the main computational step that is needed to prepare ballots in many practical voting protocols. Its computational load can also be a practical bottleneck, preventing the deployment of some protocols or requiring the use of computing clusters.We investigate the question of producing many verifiably encrypted bits in an efficient and portable way, using as a baseline the protocol that is in use in essentially all modern voting systems and libraries supporting homomorphic voting, including ElectionGuard, a state-of-the-art open source voting SDK deployed in government elections. Combining fixed base exponentiation techniques and new encryption and ZK proof mechanisms, we obtain speed-ups by more than one order of magnitude against standard implementations. Our exploration requires balancing conflicting optimization strategies, and the use of asymptotically less efficient protocols that turn out to be very effective in practice. Several of our proposed improvements are now on the ElectionGuard roadmap.

A Framework for Constructing Single Secret Leader Election from MPC.
The emergence of distributed digital currencies has raised the need for a reliable consensus mechanism. In proof-of-stake cryptocurrencies, the participants periodically choose a closed set of validators, who can vote and append transactions to the blockchain. Each validator can become a leader with the probability proportional to its stake. Keeping the leader private yet unique until it publishes a new block can significantly reduce the attack vector of an adversary and improve the throughput of the network. The problem of Single Secret Leader Election (SSLE) was first formally defined by Boneh et al. in 2020.In this work, we propose a novel framework for constructing SSLE protocols, which relies on secure multi-party computation (MPC) and satisfies the desired security properties. Our framework does not use any shuffle or sort operations and has a computational cost for N parties as low as O(N) of basic MPC operations per party. We improve the state-of-the-art for SSLE protocols that do not assume a trusted setup. Moreover, our SSLE scheme efficiently handles weighted elections. That is, for a total weight S of N parties, the associated costs are only increased by a factor of \(\log {S}\). When the MPC layer is instantiated with techniques based on Shamir’s secret-sharing, our SSLE has a communication cost of \(O(N^2)\) which is spread over \(O(\log {N})\) rounds, can tolerate up to \(t<N/2\) of faulty nodes without restarting the protocol, and its security relies on DDH in the random oracle model. When the MPC layer is instantiated with more efficient techniques based on garbled circuits, our SSLE requires all parties to participate, up to \(N-1\) of which can be malicious, and its security is based on the random oracle model.

AppBastion: Protection from Untrusted Apps and OSes on ARM.
ARM-based (mobile) devices are more popular than ever. They are used to access, process, and store confidential information and participate in sensitive authentication protocols, making them extremely attractive targets. Many attacks focus on compromising the primary operating system – for example, by convincing the user to download OS rootkits concealed within seemingly innocent apps. To partially mitigate the impact, device manufacturers responded by offering hardware-rooted trusted environments (TEEs). Yet, making use of TEEs (e.g., by securely porting existing apps) is not easy. Only a small number of security-critical applications make use of TEEs, leaving all others to run on a potentially vulnerable OS, under the control of users that all too often fall prey to cleverly disguised malware.AppBastion is a general-purpose platform that leverages the now ubiquitous ARM TrustZone TEE to secure application data from untrusted OSes. AppBastion enables applications to maintain confidential data in memory regions protected even from a compromised OS. Only approved, signed applications can access their associated protected memory regions. Data never leaves protected regions unencrypted and applications can communicate or declassify protected data only through explicit AppBastion channels. AppBastion ensures that application confidential data cannot be accessed, spoofed, or leaked by the OS.

Collaborative Anomaly Detection System for Charging Stations.
In recent years, the deployment of charging infrastructures has been increasing exponentially due to the high energy demand of electric vehicles, forming complex charging networks. These networks pave the way for the emergence of new unknown threats in both the energy and transportation sectors. Economic damages and energy theft are the most frequent risks in these environments. Thus, this paper aims to present a solution capable of accurately detecting unforeseen events and possible fraud threats that arise during charging sessions at charging stations through the current capabilities of the Machine Learning (ML) algorithms. However, these algorithms have the drawback of not fitting well in large networks and generating a high number of false positives and negatives, mainly due to the mismatch with the distribution of data over time. For that reason, a Collaborative Anomaly Detection System for Charging Stations (here referred to as CADS4CS) is proposed as an optimization measure. CADS4CS has a central analysis unit that coordinates a group of independent anomaly detection systems to provide greater accuracy using a voting algorithm. In addition, CADS4CS has the feature of continuously retraining ML models in a collaborative manner to ensure that they are adjusted to the distribution of the data. To validate the approach, different use cases and practical studies are addressed to demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the solution.

