Modeling and Enhancing Android's Permission System.
Several works have recently shown that Android’s security architecture cannot prevent many undesired behaviors that compromise the integrity of applications and the privacy of their data. This paper makes two main contributions to the body of research on Android security: first, it develops a formal framework for analyzing Android-style security mechanisms; and, second, it describes the design and implementation of Sorbet, an enforcement system that enables developers to use permissions to specify secrecy and integrity policies. Our formal framework is composed of an abstract model with several specific instantiations. The model enables us to formally define some desired security properties, which we can prove hold on Sorbet but not on Android. We implement Sorbet on top of Android 2.3.7, test it on a Nexus S phone, and demonstrate its usefulness through a case study.

Hardening Access Control and Data Protection in GFS-like File Systems.
The Google File System (GFS) is a highly distributed, faulttolerant file system designed for large files and high throughput batch processing. We consider the first complete security analysis of GFS systems. We formalize desirable security properties with respect to the successful enforcement of access control mechanisms and data confidentiality by considering a threat model that is much stronger then in previous works. We propose extensions to the GFS protocols that satisfy these properties, and provide a comprehensive analysis of the extensions, both analytically and experimentally. In a proof-of-concept implementation, we demonstrate the practicality of the extensions by showing that they incur only a 12% slowdown while offering higher-assurance guarantees.

Attack of the Clones: Detecting Cloned Applications on Android Markets.
We present DNADroid, a tool that detects Android application copying, or “cloning”, by robustly computing the similarity between two applications. DNADroid achieves this by comparing program dependency graphs between methods in candidate applications. Using DNADroid, we found at least 141 applications that have been the victims of cloning, some as many as seven times. DNADroid has a very low false positive rate — we manually confirmed that all the applications detected are indeed clones by either visual or behavioral similarity. We present several case studies that give insight into why applications are cloned, including localization and redirecting ad revenue. We describe a case of malware being added to an application and show how DNADroid was able to detect two variants of the same malware. Lastly, we offer examples of an open source cracking tool being used in the wild.

Boosting the Permissiveness of Dynamic Information-Flow Tracking by Testing.
Tracking information flow in dynamic languages remains an open challenge. It might seem natural to address the challenge by runtime monitoring. However, there are well-known fundamental limits of dynamic flow-sensitive tracking of information flow, where paths not taken in a given execution contribute to information leaks. This paper shows how to overcome the permissiveness limit for dynamic analysis by a novel use of testing. We start with a program supervised by an information-flow monitor. The security of the execution is guaranteed by the monitor. Testing boosts the permissiveness of the monitor by discovering paths where the monitor raises security exceptions. Upon discovering a security error, the program is modified by injecting an annotation that prevents the same security exception on the next run of the program. The elegance of the approach is that it is sound no matter how much coverage is provided by the testing. Further, we show that when the mechanism has discovered the necessary annotations, then we have an accuracy guarantee: the results of monitoring a program are at least as accurate as flow-sensitive static analysis. We illustrate our approach for a simple imperative language with records and exceptions. Our experiments with the QuickCheck tool indicate that random testing accurately discovers annotations for a collection of scenarios with rich information flows.

Effective Symbolic Protocol Analysis via Equational Irreducibility Conditions.
We address a problem that arises in cryptographic protocol analysis when the equational properties of the cryptosystem are taken into account: in many situations it is necessary to guarantee that certain terms generated during a state exploration are in normal form with respect to the equational theory. We give a tool-independent methodology for state exploration, based on unification and narrowing, that generates states that obey these irreducibility constraints, called contextual symbolic reachability analysis, prove its soundness and completeness, and describe its implementation in the Maude-NPA protocol analysis tool. Contextual symbolic reachability analysis also introduces a new type of unification mechanism, which we call asymmetric unification, in which any solution must leave the right side of the solution irreducible. We also present experiments showing the effectiveness of our methodology.

Deciding Epistemic and Strategic Properties of Cryptographic Protocols.
We propose a new, widely applicable model for analyzing knowledge-based (epistemic) and strategic properties of cryptographic protocols. We prove that the corresponding model checking problem with respect to an expressive epistemic strategic logic is decidable. As corollaries, we obtain decidability of complex security properties including coercion-resistance of voting protocols, accountability of protocols using a trusted third party, and abuse-freeness of contract signing protocols.

Satisfiability and Feasibility in a Relationship-Based Workflow Authorization Model.
A workflow authorization model is defined in the framework of Relationship-Based Access Control (ReBAC), in which the protection state is a social network. Armed with this model, we study a new decision problem called workflow feasibility. The goal is to ensure that the space of protection states contains at least one member in which the workflow specification can be executed to completion. We identify a sufficient condition under which feasibility can be decided by a refutation procedure that is both sound and complete. A formal specification language, based on a monotonic fragment of the Propositional Dynamic Logic (PDL), is proposed for specifying protection state spaces. The adoption of this language renders workflow feasibility NP-complete in the general case but polynomial-time decidable for an important family of workflows.

Deciding Security for a Fragment of ASLan.
ASLan is the input language of the verification tools of the AVANTSSAR platform, and an extension of the AVISPA Intermediate Format IF. One of ASLan’s core features over IF is to integrate a transition system with Horn clauses that are evaluated at every state. This allows for modeling many common situations in security such as the interaction between the workflow of a system with its access control policies.While even the transition relation is undecidable for ASLan in general, we show the security problem is decidable for a large and useful fragment that we call TASLan, as long as we bound the number of steps of honest participants. The restriction of TASLan is that all messages and predicates must be in a certain sense unambiguous in their interpretation, excluding “type-confusions” similar to some tagging results for security protocols.

A Probabilistic Framework for Localization of Attackers in MANETs.
Mobile Ad Hoc Networks (MANETs) represent an attractive and cost effective solution for providing connectivity in areas where a fixed infrastructure is not available or not a viable option. However, given their wireless nature and the lack of a stable infrastructure, MANETs are susceptible to a wide range of attacks waged by malicious nodes physically located within the transmission range of legitimate nodes. Whilst most research has focused on methods for detecting attacks, we propose a novel probabilistic framework for estimating – independently of the type of attack – the physical location of attackers, based on the location of nodes that have detected malicious activity in their neighborhood. We assume that certain countermeasures can be deployed to capture or isolate malicious nodes, and they can provide feedback on whether an attacker is actually present in a target region. We are interested in (i) estimating the minimum number of countermeasures that need to be deployed to isolate all attackers, and (ii) finding the deployment that maximizes either the expected number of attackers in the target regions or the expected number of alerts explained by the solution, subject to a constraint on the number of countermeasures. We show that these problems are NP-hard, and propose two polynomial time heuristic algorithms to find approximate solutions. The feedback provided by deployed countermeasures is taken into account to iteratively re-deploy them until all attackers are captured. Experiments using the network simulator NS-2 show that our approach works well in practice, and both algorithms can capture over 80% of the attackers within a few deployment cycles.

Robust Probabilistic Fake Packet Injection for Receiver-Location Privacy in WSN.
The singular communication model in wireless sensor networks (WSNs) originate pronounced traffic patterns that allow a local observer to deduce the location of the base station, which must be kept secret for both strategical and security reasons. In this work we present a new receiver-location privacy solution called HISP (Homogenous Injection for Sink Privacy). Our scheme is based on the idea of hiding the flow of real traffic by carefully injecting fake traffic to homogenize the transmissions from a node to its neighbors. This process is guided by a lightweight probabilistic approach ensuring that the adversary cannot decide with sufficient precision in which direction to move while maintaining a moderate amount of fake traffic. Our system is both validated analytically and experimentally through simulations.

Privacy-Aware Message Exchanges for Geographically Routed Human Movement Networks.
This paper introduces a privacy-aware geographic routing protocol for Human Movement Networks (HumaNets). HumaNets are fully decentralized opportunistic and delay-tolerate networks composed of smartphone devices. Such networks allow participants to exchange messages phone-to-phone and have applications where traditional infrastructure is unavailable (e.g., during a disaster) and in totalitarian states where cellular network monitoring and censorship are employed. Our protocol leverages self-determined location profiles of smartphone operators’ movements as a predictor of future locations, enabling efficient geographic routing over metropolitan-wide areas. Since these profiles contain sensitive information about participants’ prior movements, our routing protocol is designed to minimize the exposure of sensitive information during a message exchange. We demonstrate via simulation over both synthetic and real-world trace data that our protocol is highly scalable, leaks little information, and balances privacy and efficiency: messages are 30% more likely to be delivered than similar random walk protocols, and the median latency is only 23-28% greater than epidemic protocols while requiring an order of magnitude fewer messages.

Trust No One Else: Detecting MITM Attacks against SSL/TLS without Third-Parties.
The security guarantees provided by SSL/TLS depend on the correct authentication of servers through certificates signed by a trusted authority. However, as recent incidents have demonstrated, trust in these authorities is not well placed. Increasingly, certificate authorities (by coercion or compromise) have been creating forged certificates for a range of adversaries, allowing seemingly secure communications to be intercepted via man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks. A variety of solutions have been proposed, but their complexity and deployment costs have hindered their adoption. In this paper, we propose Direct Validation of Certificates (DVCert), a novel protocol that, instead of relying on third-parties for certificate validation, allows domains to directly and securely vouch for their certificates using previously established user authentication credentials. By relying on a robust cryptographic construction, this relatively simple means of enhancing server identity validation is not only efficient and comparatively easy to deploy, but it also solves other limitations of third-party solutions. Our extensive experimental analysis in both desktop and mobile platforms shows that DVCert transactions require little computation time on the server (e.g., less than 1 ms) and are unlikely to degrade server performance or user experience. In short, we provide a robust and practical mechanism to enhance server authentication and protect web applications from MITM attacks against SSL/TLS.

X.509 Forensics: Detecting and Localising the SSL/TLS Men-in-the-Middle.
Although recent compromises and admissions have given new credibility to claimed encounters of Man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks on SSL/TLS, very little proof exists in the public realm. In this paper, we report on the development and deployment of Crossbear, a tool to detect MitM attacks on SSL/TLS and localise their position in the network with a fair degree of confidence. MitM attacks are detected using a notary approach. For the localisation, we use a large number of traceroutes, conducted from so-called hunters from many positions on the Internet. Crossbear collects this data, orchestrates the hunting from a central point and provides the data for analysis. We outline the design of Crossbear and analyse the degree of effectivity that Crossbear achieves against attackers of different kinds and strengths. We also explain how analysis can make use of out-of-band sources like lookups of Autonomous Systems and geo-IP-mapping. Crossbear is already available, and 150 hunters have been deployed on the global PlanetLab testbed.

A Practical Man-In-The-Middle Attack on Signal-Based Key Generation Protocols.
Generating secret keys using physical properties of the wireless channel has recently become a popular research area. The main security assumption of these protocols is that a sufficiently distant adversary is unable to guess a generated secret due to the unpredictable behavior of multipath signal propagation. In this paper, we introduce a practical and efficient man-in-the-middle attack against such protocols. Using this attack, we demonstrate: (i) intentional sabotaging of key generation schemes, which leads to a high key disagreement rate, and (ii) a key recovery that reveals up to 47% of the generated secret bits. We analyze statistical countermeasures (often proposed in related work) and show that attempting to detect such attacks results in a high false positive rate, questioning the overall benefit of such schemes. We implement and experimentally validate the attacks using off-the-shelf hardware, without assuming any technological advantage for the adversary.

The Silence of the LANs: Efficient Leakage Resilience for IPsec VPNs.
Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) are increasingly used to build logically isolated networks. However, existing VPN designs and deployments neglect the problem of traffic analysis and covert channels. Hence, there are many ways to infer information from VPN traffic without decrypting it. Many proposals were made to mitigate network covert channels, but previous works remained largely theoretical or resulted in prohibitively high padding overhead and performance penalties.In this work, we (1) analyse the impact of covert channels in IPsec, (2) present several improved and novel approaches for covert channel mitigation in IPsec, (3) propose and implement a system for dynamic performance trade-offs, and (4) implement our design in the Linux IPsec stack and evaluate its performance for different types of traffic and mitigation policies. At only 24% overhead, our prototype enforces tight information-theoretic bounds on all information leakage.

Security of Patched DNS.
Most caching DNS resolvers still rely for their security, against poisoning, on validating that the DNS responses contain some ‘unpredictable’ values, copied from the request. These values include the 16 bit identifier field, and other fields, randomised and validated by different ‘patches’ to DNS. We investigate the prominent patches, and show how attackers can circumvent all of them, namely:


We show how attackers can circumvent source port randomisation, in the (common) case where the resolver connects to the Internet via different NAT devices.


We show how attackers can circumvent IP address randomisation, using some (standard-conforming) resolvers.


We show how attackers can circumvent query randomisation, including both randomisation by prepending a random nonce and case randomisation (0x20 encoding).


We present countermeasures preventing our attacks; however, we believe that our attacks provide additional motivation for adoption of DNSSEC (or other MitM-secure defenses).

Revealing Abuses of Channel Assignment Protocols in Multi-channel Wireless Networks: An Investigation Logic Approach.
This paper presents a novel specification-based investigation logic and applies it to tackle abuse of channel assignment protocols in multi-channel wireless networks. The investigation logic looks into malicious operations that violate the specification of channel assignment protocols. With logged operations, it reconstructs the process of channel assignment as an information flow that captures essential dependency relations among protocol-specific channel assignment operations. Then, it derives and applies reasoning rules to conduct consistency check over the logged operations and identify the source of abuse where the logged operations are inconsistent. Through simulation, the proposed investigation logic presents desired quality with zero false negative rate and very low false positive rate.

Exploring Linkability of User Reviews.
Large numbers of people all over the world read and contribute to various review sites. Many contributors are understandably concerned about privacy in general and, specifically, about linkability of their reviews (and accounts) across multiple review sites. In this paper, we study linkability of community-based reviewing and try to answer the question: to what extent are ”anonymous” reviews linkable, i.e., highly likely authored by the same contributor? Based on a very large set of reviews from one very popular site (Yelp), we show that a high percentage of ostensibly anonymous reviews can be accurately linked to their authors. This is despite the fact that we use very simple models and equally simple features set. Our study suggests that contributors reliably expose their identities in reviews. This has important implications for cross-referencing accounts between different review sites. Also, techniques used in our study could be adopted by review sites to give contributors feedback about linkability of their reviews.

Formal Analysis of Privacy in an eHealth Protocol.
Given the nature of health data, privacy of eHealth systems is of prime importance. An eHealth system must enforce that users remain private, even if they are bribed or coerced to reveal themselves or others. Consider e.g. a pharmaceutical company that bribes a pharmacist to reveal information which breaks a doctor’s privacy. In this paper, we identify and formalise several new but important privacy notions on enforcing doctor privacy. Then we analyse privacy of a complicated and practical eHealth protocol. Our analysis shows to what extent these properties as well as properties such as anonymity and untraceability are satisfied by the protocol. Finally, we address the found ambiguities resulting in privacy flaws, and propose suggestions for fixing them.

PRIVATUS: Wallet-Friendly Privacy Protection for Smart Meters.
In smart power grids, a smart meter placed at a consumerend point reports fine-grained usage information to utility providers. Based on this information, the providers can perform demand prediction and set on-demand pricing. However, this also threatens user privacy, since users’ specific activity or behavior patterns can be deduced from the finely granular meter readings. To resolve this issue, we design Privatus, a privacy-protection mechanism that uses a rechargeable battery. In Privatus, the meter reading reported to the utility is probabilistically independent of the actual usage at any given time instant. Privatus also considerably reduces the correlation between the meter readings and the actual usage pattern over time windows. Further, using stochastic dynamic programming, Privatus charges/discharges the battery in the optimal way to maximize savings in the energy cost, given prior knowledge of time periods for the various price zones.

SHARP: Private Proximity Test and Secure Handshake with Cheat-Proof Location Tags.
A location proximity test service allows mobile users to determine whether they are in close proximity to each other, and has found numerous applications in mobile social networks. Unfortunately, existing solutions usually reveal much of users’ private location information during proximity test. They are also vulnerable to location cheating where an attacker reports false locations to gain advantage. Moreover, the initial trust establishment among unfamiliar users in large scale mobile social networks has been a challenging task. In this paper, we propose a novel scheme that enables a user to perform (1) privacy-preserving proximity test without revealing her actual location to the server or other users not within the proximity, and (2) secure handshake that establishes secure communications among stranger users within the proximity who do not have pre-shared secret. The proposed scheme is based on a novel concept, i.e. location tags, and we put forward a location tag construction method using environmental signals that provides location unforgeability. Bloom filters are used to represent the location tags efficiently and a fuzzy extractor is exploited to extract shared secrets between matching location tags. Our solution also allows users to tune their desired location privacy level and range of proximity. We conduct extensive analysis and real experiments to demonstrate the feasibility, security, and efficiency of our scheme.

Secure Proximity Detection for NFC Devices Based on Ambient Sensor Data.
In certain applications, it is important for a remote server to securely determine whether or not two mobile devices are in close physical proximity. In particular, in the context of an NFC transaction, the bank server can validate the transaction if both the NFC phone and reader are precisely at the same location thereby preventing a form of a devastating relay attack against such systems.In this paper, we develop secure proximity detection techniques based on the information collected by ambient sensors available on NFC mobile phones, such as audio and light data. These techniques can work under the current payment infrastructure, and offer many advantages. First, they do not require the users to perform explicit actions, or make security decisions, during the transaction – just bringing the devices close to each other is sufficient. Second, being based on environmental attributes, they make it very hard, if not impossible, for the adversary to undermine the security of the system. Third, they provide a natural protection to users’ location privacy as the explicit location information is never transmitted to the server. Our experiments with the proposed techniques developed on off-the-shelf mobile phones indicate them to be quite effective in significantly raising the bar against known attacks, without affecting the NFC usage model. Although the focus of this work is on NFC phones, our approach will also be broadly applicable to RFID tags or related payment cards equipped with on-board audio or light sensors.

Enhancing Location Privacy for Electric Vehicles (at the Right time).
An electric vehicle is a promising and futuristic automobile propelled by electric motor(s), using electrical energy stored in batteries or another energy storage device. Due to the need of battery recharging, the cars will be required to visit recharging infrastructure very frequently. This may disclose the users’ private information, such as their location, which may expose users’ privacy. In this paper, we provide mechanisms to enhance location privacy of electric vehicles at the right time, by proposing an anonymous payment system with privacy protection support. Our technique further allows traceability in the case where the cars are stolen.

Design and Implementation of a Terrorist Fraud Resilient Distance Bounding System.
Given the requirements of fast processing and the complexity of RF ranging systems, distance bounding protocols have been challenging to implement so far; only few designs have been proposed and implemented. Currently, the most efficient implementation of distance bounding protocols uses analog processing and enables the prover to receive a message, process it and transmit the reply within 1 ns, two orders of magnitude faster than the most efficient digital implementation. However, even if implementing distance bounding using analog processing clearly provides tighter security guarantees than digital implementations, existing analog implementations do not support resilience against Terrorist Fraud attacks; they protect only against Distance Fraud and Mafia Fraud attacks. We address this problem and propose a new, hybrid digital-analog design that enables the implementation of Terrorist Fraud resilient distance bounding protocols. We introduce a novel attack, which we refer to as the “double read-out” attack and show that our proposed system is also secure against this attack. Our system consists of a prototype prover that provides strong security guarantees: if a dishonest prover performs the Terrorist Fraud attack, it can cheat on its distance bound to the verifier only up to 4.5 m and if it performs Distance Fraud or Mafia Fraud attacks up to 0.41 m. Finally, we show that our system can be used to implement existing (Terrorist Fraud resilient) distance bounding protocols (e.g., the Swiss Knife and Hancke-Kuhn protocol) without requiring protocol modifications.

Applying Divertibility to Blind Ballot Copying in the Helios Internet Voting System.
Cortier & Smyth have explored ballot copying in the Helios e-voting platform as an attack against privacy. They also pointed out that their approach to ballot copying could be detected by a modified Helios. We revisit ballot copying from a different viewpoint: as a tool to prevent vote diffusion (the division of votes among multiple weak candidates) and to lessen the effect of established voting blocs. Our approach is based on blinding the ballot casting protocol to create an undetectable copy. A willing voter can cooperate with a prospective copier, helping the copier produce a blinded copy of his ballot without revealing his vote. We prove that Helios is unable to detect the copying. The possibility of such cooperation between voters is manifested only in internet voting and as such is a fundamental difference between internet and booth voting.

Defining Privacy for Weighted Votes, Single and Multi-voter Coercion.
Most existing formal privacy definitions for voting protocols are based on observational equivalence between two situations where two voters swap their votes. These definitions are unsuitable for cases where votes are weighted. In such a case swapping two votes can result in a different outcome and both situations become trivially distinguishable. We present a definition for privacy in voting protocols in the Applied π-Calculus that addresses this problem. Using our model, we are also able to define multi-voter coercion, i.e. situations where several voters are attacked at the same time. Then we prove that under certain realistic assumptions a protocol secure against coercion of a single voter is also secure against coercion of multiple voters. This applies for Receipt-Freeness as well as Coercion-Resistance.

TorScan: Tracing Long-Lived Connections and Differential Scanning Attacks.
Tor is a widely used anonymity network providing low-latency communication capabilities. The anonymity provided by Tor heavily relies on the hardness of linking a user’s entry and exit nodes. If an attacker gains access to the topological information about the Tor network instead of having to consider the network as a fully connected graph, this anonymity may be reduced. In fact, we have found ways to probe the connectivity of a Tor relay. We demonstrate how the resulting leakage of the Tor network topology can be used in attacks which trace back a user from an exit relay to a small set of potential entry nodes.

Introducing the gMix Open Source Framework for Mix Implementations.
In this paper we introduce the open source software framework gMix which aims to simplify the implementation and evaluation of mix-based systems. gMix is targeted at researchers who want to evaluate new ideas and developers interested in building practical mix systems. The framework consists of a generic architecture structured in logical layers with a clear separation of concerns. Implementations of mix variants and supportive components are organized as plug-ins that can easily be exchanged and extended. We provide reference implementations for several well-known mix concepts.

Secure and Efficient Outsourcing of Sequence Comparisons.
We treat the problem of secure outsourcing of sequence comparisons by a client to remote servers, which given two strings λ and μ of respective lengths n and m, consists of finding a minimum-cost sequence of insertions, deletions, and substitutions (also called an edit script) that transform λ into μ. In our setting a client owns λ and μ and outsources the computation to two servers without revealing to them information about either the input strings or the output sequence. Our solution is non-interactive for the client (who only sends information about the inputs and receives the output) and the client’s work is linear in its input/output. The servers’ performance is O(σmn) computation (which is optimal) and communication, where σ is the alphabet size, and the solution is designed to work when the servers have only O(σ(m + n)) memory. By utilizing garbled circuit evaluation in a novel way, we completely avoid public-key cryptography, which makes our solution particularly efficient.

Third-Party Private DFA Evaluation on Encrypted Files in the Cloud.
Motivated by the need to outsource file storage to untrusted clouds while still permitting limited use of that data by third parties, we present practical protocols by which a client (the third-party) can evaluate a deterministic finite automaton (DFA) on an encrypted file stored at a server (the cloud), once authorized to do so by the file owner. Our protocols provably protect the privacy of the DFA and the file contents from a malicious server and the privacy of the file contents (except for the result of the evaluation) from an honest-but-curious client (and, heuristically, from a malicious client). We further present simple techniques to detect client or server misbehavior.

New Algorithms for Secure Outsourcing of Modular Exponentiations.
Modular exponentiations have been considered the most expensive operation in discrete-logarithm based cryptographic protocols. In this paper, we propose a new secure outsourcing algorithm for exponentiation modular a prime in the one-malicious model. Compared with the state-of-the-art algorithm [33], the proposed algorithm is superior in both efficiency and checkability. We then utilize this algorithm as a subroutine to achieve outsource-secure Cramer-Shoup encryptions and Schnorr signatures. Besides, we propose the first outsource-secure and efficient algorithm for simultaneous modular exponentiations. Moreover, we prove that both the algorithms can achieve the desired security notions.

Towards Symbolic Encryption Schemes.
Symbolic encryption, in the style of Dolev-Yao models, is ubiquitous in formal security models. In its common use, encryption on a whole message is specified as a single monolithic block. From a cryptographic perspective, however, this may require a resource-intensive cryptographic algorithm, namely an authenticated encryption scheme that is secure under chosen ciphertext attack. Therefore, many reasonable encryption schemes, such as AES in the CBC or CFB mode, are not among the implementation options.In this paper, we report new attacks on CBC and CFB based implementations of the well-known Needham-Schroeder and Denning-Sacco protocols. To avoid such problems, we advocate the use of refined notions of symbolic encryption that have natural correspondence to standard cryptographic encryption schemes.

Decision Procedures for Simulatability.
We address the question of automatically proving security theorems in the universally composable (UC) model for ideal and real functionalities composed of if-then-else programs with uniform random number generation and data objects from the additive group of \({\mathbb F}_{2^m}\). We prove that for this restricted yet powerful language framework, there is an effective procedure to decide if a real functionality realizes an ideal functionality, and this procedure is in computational time independent of m, which is essentially the security parameter.To this end, we consider multivariate pseudo-linear functions, which are functions computed by branching programs over data objects from the additive group of \({\mathbb F}_{2^m}\). The conditionals in such programs are built from equality constraints over linear expressions, closed under negation and conjunction.Let f
1, f
2,...,f

k
 be k pseudo-linear functions in n variables, and let f be another pseudo-linear function in the same n variables. We show that if f is a function of the given k functions, then it must be a pseudo-linear function of the given k functions. This generalizes the straightforward claim for just linear functions. Proceeding further, we generalize the theorem to randomized pseudo-linear functions. We also prove a more general theorem where the k functions can in addition take further arguments, and prove that if f can be represented as an iterated composition of these k functions, then it can be represented as a probabilistic pseudo-linear iterated composition of these functions. Additionally, we allow f itself to be a randomized function, i.e. we give a procedure for deciding if f is a probabilistic sub-exponential (in m) time iterated function of the given k randomized functions. The decision procedure runs in computational time independent of m.

Model-Checking Bisimulation-Based Information Flow Properties for Infinite State Systems.
Bisimulation-based information flow properties were introduced by Focardi and Gorrieri [1] as a way of specifying security properties for transition system models. These properties were shown to be decidable for finite-state systems. In this paper, we study the problem of verifying these properties for some well-known classes of infinite state systems. We show that all the properties are undecidable for each of these classes of systems.

Identity-Based Traitor Tracing with Short Private Key and Short Ciphertext.
Identity-based traitor tracing (IBTT) scheme can be utilized to identify a private (decryption) key of any identity that is illegally used in an identity-based broadcast encryption scheme. In PKC’07, Abdalla et al. proposed the first IBTT construction with short private key. In CCS’08, Boneh and Naor proposed a public-key traitor tracing, which can be extended to IBTT with short ciphertext. With a further exploration, in this paper, we propose the first IBTT with short private key and short ciphertext. Private key and ciphertext are both order of O(l
1 + l
2), where l
1 is the bit length of codeword of fingerprint codes and l
2 is the bit length of group element. To present our IBTT scheme, we introduce a new primitive called identity-based set encryption (IBSE), and then describe our IBTT scheme from IBSE and fingerprint codes based on the Boneh-Naor paradigm. Our IBSE scheme is provably secure in the random oracle model under the variant of q-BDHE assumption.

Identity-Based Encryption with Master Key-Dependent Message Security and Leakage-Resilience.
We introduce the concept of identity-based encryption (IBE) with master key-dependent chosen-plaintext (mKDM-sID-CPA) security. These are IBE schemes that remain secure even after the adversary sees encryptions, under some initially selected identities, of functions of the master secret keys. We then show that the Canetti, Halevi and Katz (Eurocrypt 2004) transformation delivers chosen-ciphertext secure key-dependent encryption (KDM-CCA) schemes when applied to mKDM-sID-CPA secure IBE schemes. Previously only one generic construction of KDM-CCA secure public key schemes was known, due to Camenisch, Chandran and Shoup (Eurocrypt 2009), and it required non-interactive zero knowledge proofs (NIZKs). Thus we show that NIZKs are not intrinsic to KDM-CCA public key encryption. As a proof of concept, we are able to instantiate our new concept under the Rank assumption on pairing groups and for affine functions of the secret keys. The scheme is inspired by the work by Boneh, Halevi, Hamburg and Ostrovsky (Crypto 2008). Our instantiation is only able to provide security against single encryption queries, or alternatively, against a bounded number of encryption queries. Secondly, we show that a special parameters setting of our main scheme provides master-key leakage-resilient identity-based encryption against chosen-plaintext attacks. This recently proposed security notion aims at taking into account security against side-channel attacks that only decrease the entropy of the master-key up to a certain threshold. Thirdly, we give new and better reductions between the Rank problem (previously named as Matrix-DDH or Matrix d-Linear problem) and the Decisional Linear problem.

Unique Group Signatures.
We initiate the study of unique group signature such that signatures of the same message by the same user will always have a large common component (i.e., unique identifier). It enables an efficient detection algorithm, revealing the identities of illegal users, which is fundamentally different from previous primitives. We present a number of unique group signature schemes (without random oracles) under a variety of security models that extend the standard security models of ordinary group signatures. Our work is a beneficial step towards mitigating the well-known group signature paradox, and it also has many other interesting applications and efficiency implications.

Relations among Notions of Privacy for RFID Authentication Protocols.
In this paper, we present the relationship between privacy definitions for Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) authentication protocols. The security model is necessary for ensuring security or privacy, but many researchers present different privacy concepts for RFID authentication and the technical relationship among them is unclear. We reconsider the zero-knowledge based privacy proposed by Deng et al. at ESORICS 2010 and show that this privacy is equivalent to indistinguishability based privacy proposed by Juels and Weis. We also provide the implication and separation between these privacy definitions and the simulation based privacy proposed by Paise and Vaudenay at AsiaCCS 2008 based on the public verifiability of the communication message.

PE(AR)2: Privacy-Enhanced Anonymous Authentication with Reputation and Revocation.
Anonymous authentication schemes allow users to act freely without being tracked. The users may not want to trust a third party in ensuring their privacy, yet a service provider (SP) should have the authority to blacklist a misbehaving user. They are seemingly contradicting requirements. PEREA was the most efficient solution to this problem. However, there are a few drawbacks which make it vulnerable and not practical enough. In this paper, we propose PE(AR)2, which not only fixes PEREA’s vulnerability, but also significantly improves its computation efficiency. Apart from revoking repeated misbehaving users, our system also rewards anonymous users via a built-in reputation system. Our scheme does not require the SP to timely review all previously authenticated sessions, and does not have the dependency on the blacklist size for user-side computation (c.f. EPID/BLAC(R)). Our benchmark on PE(AR)2 shows that an SP can handle over 160 requests/second – a 460-fold efficiency improvement over PEREA, when the credentials store 1000 single-use tickets.

Dismantling iClass and iClass Elite.
With more than 300 million cards sold, HID iClass is one of the most popular contactless smart cards on the market. It is widely used for access control, secure login and payment systems. The card uses 64-bit keys to provide authenticity and integrity. The cipher and key diversification algorithms are proprietary and little information about them is publicly available. In this paper we have reverse engineered all security mechanisms in the card including cipher, authentication protocol and key diversification algorithms, which we publish in full detail. Furthermore, we have found six critical weaknesses that we exploit in two attacks, one against iClass Standard and one against iClass Elite (a.k.a., iClass High Security). In order to recover a secret card key, the first attack requires one authentication attempt with a legitimate reader and 222 queries to a card. This attack has a computational complexity of 240 MAC computations. The whole attack can be executed within a day on ordinary hardware. Remarkably, the second attack which is against iClass Elite is significantly faster. It directly recovers the master key from only 15 authentication attempts with a legitimate reader. The computational complexity of this attack is lower than 225 MAC computations, which means that it can be fully executed within 5 seconds on an ordinary laptop.

Evaluation of Standardized Password-Based Key Derivation against Parallel Processing Platforms.
Passwords are still the preferred method of user authentication for a large number of applications. In order to derive cryptographic keys from (human-entered) passwords, key-derivation functions are used. One of the most well-known key-derivation functions is the standardized PBKDF2 (RFC2898), which is used in TrueCrypt, CCMP of WPA2, and many more. In this work, we evaluate the security of PBKDF2 against password guessing attacks using state-of-the-art parallel computing architectures, with the goal to find parameters for the PBKDF2 that protect against today’s attacks. In particular we developed fast implementations of the PBKDF2 on FPGA-clusters and GPU-clusters. These two families of platforms both have a better price-performance ratio than PC-clusters and pose, thus, a great threat when running large scale guessing attacks. To the best of our knowledge, we demonstrate the fastest attacks against PBKDF2, and show that we can guess more than 65% of typical passwords in about one week.

Beyond eCK: Perfect Forward Secrecy under Actor Compromise and Ephemeral-Key Reveal.
We show that it is possible to achieve perfect forward secrecy in two-message key exchange (KE) protocols that satisfy even stronger security properties than provided by the extended Canetti-Krawczyk (eCK) security model. In particular, we consider perfect forward secrecy in the presence of adversaries that can reveal the long-term secret keys of the actor of a session and reveal ephemeral secret keys.We propose two new game-based security models for KE protocols. First, we formalize a slightly stronger variant of the eCK security model that we call eCKw. Second, we integrate perfect forward secrecy into eCKw, which gives rise to the even stronger eCK-PFS model. We propose a security-strengthening transformation (i.e., a compiler) between our new models. Given a two-message Diffie-Hellman type protocol secure in eCKw, our transformation yields a two-message protocol that is secure in eCK-PFS. As an example, we show how our transformation can be applied to the NAXOS protocol.

Bleichenbacher's Attack Strikes again: Breaking PKCS#1 v1.5 in XML Encryption.
We describe several attacks against the PKCS#1 v1.5 key transport mechanism of XML Encryption. Our attacks allow to recover the secret key used to encrypt transmitted payload data within a few minutes or several hours, depending on the considered scenario.The attacks exploit differences in error messages and in the timing behavior of XML frameworks. We show how to attack seemingly invulnerable implementations, by exploiting additional properties of the XML Encryption standard that lead to new side-channels. An interesting novelty of one of our attacks is that it combines a weakness of a public-key scheme (transporting an ephemeral session key) with a different weakness of a symmetric encryption scheme (which transports the payload data, encrypted with the session key).Recently the XML Encryption standard was updated, in response to an attack presented at CCS 2011. The attacks described in this paper work even against the updated version of XML Encryption. Our work shows once more that legacy cryptosystems have to be used with extreme care, and should be avoided wherever possible, since they may lead to practical attacks.

On the Security of Password Manager Database Formats.
Password managers are critical pieces of software relied upon by users to securely store valuable and sensitive information, from online banking passwords and login credentials to passport- and social security numbers. Surprisingly, there has been very little academic research on the security these applications provide.This paper presents the first rigorous analysis of storage formats used by popular password managers. We define two realistic security models, designed to represent the capabilities of real-world adversaries. We then show how specific vulnerabilities in our models allow an adversary to implement practical attacks. Our analysis shows that most password manager database formats are broken even against weak adversaries.

Scalable Telemetry Classification for Automated Malware Detection.
Industry reports and blogs have estimated the amount of malware based on known malicious files. This paper extends this analysis to the amount of unknown malware. The study is based on 26.7 million files referenced in telemetry reports from 50 million computers running commercial anti-malware (AM) products. To estimate the undetected malware, a classifier predicts the underlying nature of unknown files recorded in the telemetry reports. The telemetry classifier predicts that 69.6% (4.27 million) of the unknown files are malicious. Assuming the unknown files predicted to be malicious by the classifier are malware, the telemetry classifier also allows us to estimate the efficacy of the AM system indicating that signatures detected 82.8% (20.6 million) of the malicious files. We have validated our system by conducting a longitudinal study to measure the false positive and false negative rates over a period of thirteen months.

Abstraction-Based Malware Analysis Using Rewriting and Model Checking.
We propose a formal approach for the detection of high-level malware behaviors. Our technique uses a rewriting-based abstraction mechanism, producing abstracted forms of program traces, independent of the program implementation. It then allows us to handle similar behaviors in a generic way and thus to be robust with respect to variants. These behaviors, defined as combinations of patterns given in a signature, are detected by model-checking on the high-level representation of the program. We work on unbounded sets of traces, which makes our technique useful not only for dynamic analysis, considering one trace at a time, but also for static analysis, considering a set of traces inferred from a control flow graph. Abstracting traces with rewriting systems on first order terms with variables allows us in particular to model dataflow and to detect information leak.

Detecting Phishing Emails the Natural Language Way.
Phishing causes billions of dollars in damage every year and poses a serious threat to the Internet economy. Email is still the most commonly used medium to launch phishing attacks [1]. In this paper, we present a comprehensive natural language based scheme to detect phishing emails using features that are invariant and fundamentally characterize phishing. Our scheme utilizes all the information present in an email, namely, the header, the links and the text in the body. Although it is obvious that a phishing email is designed to elicit an action from the intended victim, none of the existing detection schemes use this fact to identify phishing emails. Our detection protocol is designed specifically to distinguish between “actionable” and “informational” emails. To this end, we incorporate natural language techniques in phishing detection. We also utilize contextual information, when available, to detect phishing: we study the problem of phishing detection within the contextual confines of the user’s email box and demonstrate that context plays an important role in detection. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first scheme that utilizes natural language techniques and contextual information to detect phishing. We show that our scheme outperforms existing phishing detection schemes. Finally, our protocol detects phishing at the email level rather than detecting masqueraded websites. This is crucial to prevent the victim from clicking any harmful links in the email. Our implementation called PhishNet-NLP, operates between a user’s mail transfer agent (MTA) and mail user agent (MUA) and processes each arriving email for phishing attacks even before reaching the inbox.

JVM-Portable Sandboxing of Java's Native Libraries.
Although Java provides strong support for safety and security, native libraries used in a Java application can open security holes. Previous work, Robusta, puts native libraries in a sandbox to protect the integrity and security of Java. However, Robusta’s implementation modifies the internals of OpenJDK, a particular implementation of a Java Virtual Machine (JVM). As such, it is not portable to other JVM implementations. This paper shows how to make the idea of sandboxing native libraries JVM-portable. We present a two-layer approach for sandboxing without modifying the internals of a JVM. We also discuss our experience of sandboxing Java’s core native libraries. Experiments show that our approach of JVM-portable sandboxing incurs modest performance overhead on SPECjvm 2008 benchmark programs.

Codejail: Application-Transparent Isolation of Libraries with Tight Program Interactions.
Dynamically linked libraries are commonly used in software programs to facilitate code reuse. Once a library is linked into a software program, a bug in the library can lead to compromise of the whole program. Moreover, the library may also contain malicious code. Existing solutions for software component isolation assume simple interactions between a library and the main program, otherwise, they require significant modification of the main program and the library. In this paper, we propose a novel solution, Codejail, which supports a partial isolation of libraries that have tight memory interactions with the main program. Codejail requires no modification to the main program or the library. We demonstrate using a Linux prototype that Codejail can work easily with real-world programs and libraries. The performance is good for a portable implementation with costs commensurate with the degree of tight interaction.

SocialImpact: Systematic Analysis of Underground Social Dynamics.
Existing research on net-centric attacks has focused on the detection of attack events on network side and the removal of rogue programs from client side. However, such approaches largely overlook the way on how attack tools and unwanted programs are developed and distributed. Recent studies in underground economy reveal that suspicious attackers heavily utilize online social networks to form special interest groups and distribute malicious code. Consequently, examining social dynamics, as a novel way to complement existing research efforts, is imperative to systematically identify attackers and tactically cope with net-centric threats. In this paper, we seek a way to understand and analyze social dynamics relevant to net-centric attacks and propose a suite of measures called SocialImpact for systematically discovering and mining adversarial evidence. We also demonstrate the feasibility and applicability of our approach by implementing a proof-of-concept prototype Cassandra with a case study on real-world data archived from the Internet.

